Absorb	After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Acid	Acid lowers the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 18+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Acid Spray	Acid Spray lowers the target’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Acrobatics	If the user is not holding an item, Acrobatics instead has a Damage Base of 11 (3d10+10 / 27). Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Acupressure	Roll 1d6. On a result of 1, raise the target’s Attack 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 2, raise the target’s Defense 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 3, raise the target’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 4, raise the target’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 5, raise the target’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 6, raise the target’s Accuracy by +2. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Aerial Ace	Aerial Ace cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Aeroblast	Aeroblast is a Critical Hit on an Even-Numbered Roll. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
After You	After You is a Swift Action. The target takes their turn for the round immediately after the user finishes their turn, ignoring Initiative. After You may only affect a target that has not yet acted that round and can only affect willing targets. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Desperation
Agility	Raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Air Cutter	Air Cutter is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Air Slash	Air Slash Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Ally Switch	Ally Switch may be declared during a foe’s turn as an Interrupt. The user chooses one willing ally within 6 meters; the target and the user switch places. If the ally was a target of a Move, the user is now the target; If the user was a target of a Move, the ally is now the target. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Tease
Amnesia	Raise the user’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Anchor Shot	The Target is Trapped for 2 rounds. Anchor Shot may only be used from the user's Anchor Token. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Catching Up
Ancient Power	On 19+, the user has each of its stats raised by +1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Apple Acid	The target’s Special Defense is lowered by 1 CS. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Aqua Jet	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Aqua Ring	Aqua Ring covers the user in a Coat that heals the user at the beginning of their turn. The user is healed a Tick of Hit Points each turn. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Aqua Tail	None Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Arcane Fury	Arcane Fury’s Targets become Vulnerable on 19+. Limitation: None
Arcane Storm	All targets of Arcane Storm are Slowed and Vulnerable for 1 Full Round. Limitation: Ranged Weapons only
Arm Thrust	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Aromatherapy	All allies in the burst are cured of one status condition of their choice. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Aromatic Mist	All allies in Aromatic Mist’s area of effect have their Special Defense raised 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Assist	Randomly select another Pokémon on the user’s roster and then randomly select a Move that Pokémon knows. Assist’s user uses that Move immediately. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Assurance	When you hit with Assurance, if Assurance’s target has already been damaged by a Move on the same round Assurance is being used, Assurance has a Damage Base of 12 (3d12+10 / 30) instead. This effect may trigger only once per Scene per Target. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Double Time
Astonish	Astonish Flinches the target on 15+. Once per scene, if the target is unaware of the user’s presence, Astonish automatically Flinches the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Astral Barrage	Legal targets hit by Astral Barrage are Slowed for one full round. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Attack Order	Attack Order is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Attract	Attract Infatuates the target if its gender is the opposite of the user’s. Attract fails when used by or against Genderless targets. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Aura Sphere	Aura Sphere cannot miss. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Aura Wheel	The user’s Speed is increased 1 CS. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention
Aurora Beam	Aurora Beam lowers the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 18+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Aurora Veil	Blessing – Any user affected by Aurora Veil may activate it when receiving Damage to resist the Damage one step. Aurora Veil may be activated 2 times, and then disappears.
Autotomize	For the remainder of the Encounter, the user’s Weight Class is one value lower, to a minimum of 1. If the user can, the user’s Speed is raised by +2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Avalanche	When declaring Avalanche, the user does nothing and may not Shift. At the end of the round, the user Shifts and uses Avalanche on any legal target. If the target damaged the user this round, Avalanche has a Damage Base of 12 (4d10+15 / 40) instead. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Double Time
Baby-Doll Eyes	The target’s Attack is lowered 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Backswing	None Limitation: Large Melee Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: All Two-Handed Weapons
Bane	The target loses a Tick of Hit Points at the start of their next three turns and suffers a -2 penalty to all Save Checks on those turns. Limitation: None
Baneful Bunker	If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use Baneful Bunker. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the attacker is Poisoned. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Barb Barrage	The target is Poisoned on a 17+. Once a Scene, if Barb Barrage’s target has a Status Condition, you may choose to not roll for Five Strike. Instead, treat Barb Barrage as though it automatically rolled an 8 for Five Strike. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable
Barrage	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Barrier	The user creates a Barrier of psychic energy. The user places up to 4 segments of Barrier; each segment must be continuous with another segment, and at least one must be adjacent to the user. These barriers count as blocking terrain and last until the end of the encounter or until they are destroyed. Each Barrier segment is 2 meters tall, 1 meter wide, and 2 centimeters thick.  Each segment has 20 Hit Points, 15 Damage Reduction, and takes damage as if it was Psychic Typed. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Sabotage
Bash!	Bash! lowers the target’s Initiative to 0 for 1 full round on 15+. Limitation: None Weapon Suggestions: Axes, Blunt Weapons, Throwing Hammers
Baton Pass	The user is replaced with another Pokémon from their trainer’s roster. All Combat Stage, Coats, and [Stratagems] on Baton Pass’ user are transferred to the replacement. Baton Pass may be used to switch even if the user is Trapped. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Beak Blast	Beak Blast must be declared at the start of the round. If the user is hit by a Melee attack this round, their attacker is Burned. At the end of the round, the user may shift and attack with Beak Blast. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention    Ghost Moves:
Beat Up	The user and up to two allies adjacent to the target may each make a Struggle Attack against the target. These Struggle Attacks hit for Dark-Type Damage instead of their usual Type. Beat Up may trigger Pack Hunt only once, no matter the number of attacks. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable
Behemoth Bash	The DB of Behemoth Bash increases by +2 for each positive CS the target has, to a maximum of DB 20. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Behemoth Blade	The DB of Behemoth Blade increases by +2 for each positive CS the target has, to a maximum of DB 20. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Good Show
Belch	Belch cannot be used if the user has not traded in a Digestion Buff during this Scene. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Belly Drum	The user gains +6 Attack Combat Stages, and loses Hit Points equal to ½ of their Max Hit Points. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!  Indices and Reference 392
Bestow	The user gives its held item to the target, unless the target is already holding an item. Using Bestow is a Swift Action. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Bide	The user may use Bide as a Reaction Move upon being Hit by a Damaging Move. During their next available turn, the user may Shift and then use Bide, causing all Adjacent foes to lose X HP, where X is the amount of Damage taken since declaring use of Bide (Loss of life through effects such as Poison is not ‘Damage’). Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time
Bind	The user gains a +1 Bonus to Accuracy Rolls made to initiate Grapple Maneuvers, and +2 to Skill Checks made to initiate Grapple Maneuvers or gain Dominance. Whenever the user gains Dominance in a Grapple, the target of the Grapple loses a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Safe Option
Bite	Bite Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Bitter Malice	Legal targets hit by Bitter Malice are Stuck and Trapped until the end of their next turn on a 19+.  Once a Scene, if Bitter Malice’s target has a Status Condition, you may have Bitter Malice’s Damage Base be 12 instead (3d12+10 / 30). Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Blade Trap	If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use Blade Trap. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the attacker becomes Vulnerable for one full round. Spartan’s Honedge: This variant begins as a thick kop- is, becomes two smaller xiphos swords when it evolves into Doublade, and then becomes a kopis again as Aeg- islash, paired with the iconic aspis shield used by Spar- tan hoplites. In its final form, Aegislash tends to use its shield for offense just as much as it does its blade half. Honedge’s Adept
Blast Burn	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Blaze Kick	Blaze Kick Burns the target on 19+, and is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Bleakwind Storm	The target is Flinched on a 15+ and Frozen on a 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Unsettling    Ghost Moves:
Bleed!	The target loses a Tick of Hit Points at the start of their next three turns. Limitation: None Weapon Suggestions: Axes, Swords, Bows, Spears
Blizzard	Blizzard Freezes all legal target on 15+. If the target is in Hailing Weather, Blizzard cannot miss. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Block	The target is Stuck and Trapped until the beginning of your next turn. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Blue Flare	Blue Flare Burns the target on 17+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Body Press	The user’s Defense Stat is added to the damage roll instead of the Attack Stat. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Gamble
Body Slam	Body Slam Paralyzes the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Bolt Beak	Against targets with a lower initiative that have not yet acted this round, Bolt Beak deals +10 damage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Catching Up
Bolt Strike	Bolt Strike Paralyzes the target on 17+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Bone Club	Bone Club Flinches the target on 18+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Bone Rush	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Bonemerang	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Boomburst	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Bounce	The user first Shifts, gaining a +1 Bonus to Movement Speed and to their Jump Capabilities. After the user Shifts, they may attack with Bounce. The target becomes Vulnerable, and is Paralyzed on 16+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Special Attention
Brave Bird	The target is pushed back 2 meters. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Desperation
Breaking Swipe	The target’s Attack is lowered 1 CS. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Brick Break	Light Screen and Reflect may not be activated in response to Brick Break. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Brine	If the target’s Hit Points are under 50%, Brine’s Damage Base is increased to Damage Base 13 (4d10+10 / 35). Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Bubble	Bubble lowers the target’s Speed on 16+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Desperation
Bubble Beam	Bubble Beam lowers the target’s Speed on 18+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Desperation
Bug Bite	If the target has a stored Digestion Buff or has traded in a Digestion Buff this Scene, the user may gain the effects of the Digestion Buff. This does not count towards the usual limit on the user’s Digestion Buffs. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Bug Buzz	Bug Buzz lowers the Special Defense of all targets on 19+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Incentives
Bulk Up	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Bulldoze	All Legal Targets are lowered 1 Speed Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Bullet Punch	None. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Bullet Seed	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Bullseye	Bullseye is a Critical Hit on 16+. Limitation: Ranged Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: All Ranged
Burn Up	Until the end of the encounter, the user loses its Fire-Type. Pure Fire-Types instead become Normal-Type. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Burning Jealousy	After Burning Jealousy has resolved, the user may choose to Burn foes within 5m that have had any CS raised since the beginning of that foe’s last turn. This Effect may trigger only once per Scene. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Calm Mind	Raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Camouflage	The user changes their Type to match the field. Forests and grassy areas change the user into Grass- Type. Watery areas change the user into Water-Type. Caves and Mountains could change the user into Rock- Type or Ground-Type. An icy terrain would turn the user into Ice-Type. A building may change the user into Steel-Type or Normal-Type. Weather affects what Type the user becomes. Use common sense, if you are having difficult determining what type the user should become, consult the GM. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Captivate	Captivate lowers the target’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages. Captivate may not affect something that is the same gender as the user or something that is genderless. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Excitement
Ceaseless Edge	The target is put in a Vortex. Ceaseless Edge is a Critical Hit on a 19+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Safe Option     Electric Moves:
Charge	If the user performs an Electric Move on their next turn that deals damage, add its Damage Dice Roll an extra time to the damage. Raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Charge Beam	If Charge Beam successfully hits a target, roll 1d20. On a roll of 7+,  the user’s Special Attack is raised by +1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Charm	Charm lowers the target’s Attack 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Chatter	Chatter confuses all targets on 16+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up  Indices and Reference 374
Cheap Shot	Cheap Shot cannot miss. Limitation: Small Melee and Short Ranged Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Daggers, Short Swords, Hatch- ets, Throwing Weapons
Chip Away	Ignore any Armor, Damage Reduction, or changes in the target’s Defense or Special Defense (such as from Combat Stages) when calculating damage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Chloroblast	The user’s Hit Points are reduced by 50% of their full Hit Point value. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented or reduced in any way. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Big Show    Ground Moves:
Circle Throw	The target is Pushed 6 meters minus their Weight Class. On 15+, the target is also Tripped. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Clamp	The user gains a +1 Bonus to Accuracy Rolls made to initiate Grapple Maneuvers, and +2 to Skill Checks made to initiate Grapple Maneuvers or gain Dominance. Whenever the user gains Dominance in a Grapple, the target of the Grapple loses a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Clanging Scales	The user adds half their Defense Stat to Clanging Scale's Damage Roll. After the Move is resolved, the user's Defense is lowered by 1 CS. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Good Show
Clangorous Soul	The user loses 1/3rd of their Max Hit Points and has each of its stats raised by +1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Clear Smog	The target’s Combat Stages are reset to their default, and all Coats on the target are destroyed. Clear Smog cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Close Combat	The user’s Defense and Special Defense are each lowered by -1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Coaching	The user and any allies in the Burst have their Attack and Defense raised by 1 CS. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Get Ready
Coil	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage, raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage, and the user gains +1 Accuracy. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Comet Punch	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Cone of Force	Cone of Force Pushes all targets 2 meters, and lowers their Evasion by -2 for 1 full round.. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only
Confide	The target’s Special Attack is lowered 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Confuse Ray	The target is Confused. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Confusion	Confusion Confuses the target on 19+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 419
Constrict	Constrict lowers the target’s Speed 1 Combat Stage. Constrict may be used as a Swift Action against targets the user is Grappling, and automatically hits when performed this way. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Safe Option
Conversion	The user becomes the elemental Type of their choice as long as they have a Move that is the same elemental Type until the end of the encounter. Replace all other Types. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Catching Up
Conversion2	The user becomes the elemental Type of their choice as long as the Type resists the elemental Type of the Move it last took damage from until the end of the encounter. Replace all other Types. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Catching Up
Copycat	Use the Move the target has used on their last turn. You may choose new targets for the Move. Copycat cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Attention Grabber  Indices and Reference 394
Core Enforcer	Each target has its Ability disabled until the end of the encounter. If a target has more than one Ability, you choose one of them to disable. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Unsettling
Corrosive Gas	Targets hit have their current Held Item(s) unable to be used for the remainder of the Scene. In addition, Steel-Type targets hit lose their immunity to Poison until they Faint or Take A Breather; Poison instead counts as neutral against Steel. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Cosmic Power	Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Cotton Guard	Raise the user’s Defense 3 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Cotton Spore	All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Counter	Counter may be used as a Reaction when the user is hit by a damaging Physical Attack. Resolve the Triggering Attack, with Counter’s user resisting the attack one step further. After the attack is resolved, if Counter’s user was not Fainted, the triggering foe then loses Hit Points equal to twice the amount of Hit Points lost by the user from the triggering attack. Note that Counter is Physical, and while it cannot miss, it cannot hit targets immune to Fighting-Type Moves. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time  Indices and Reference 364
Court Change	All Blessings and Hazards swap which side that they belong to. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Covet	Covet takes the target’s Held Item or Accessory Slot Item and attaches it to Covet’s user, if the user is not holding anything. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Crabhammer	Crabhammer is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 433
Crafty Shield	If the user or an Ally within 2 meters of Crafty Shield’s user is hit by a Status Move, you may use Crafty Shield as an Interrupt. All targets in Crafty Shield’s area- of-effect including the user, are instead not hit by the triggering Move and do not suffer any of its effects. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Cross Chop	Cross Chop is a Critical Hit on 16+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Cross Poison	Cross Poison is a Critical Hit on 18+, and Poisons the target on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 415
Crunch	Crunch lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17+ Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Crush Claw	Crush Claw lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on Even-Numbered Rolls. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Crush Grip	For every 10% the target is below their full Hit Points, Crush Grip’s Damage Base is reduced by 1. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time
Curse	If the user is not a Ghost Type, Curse has a Frequency of EOT, and when used the user lowers its Speed by -1 Combat Stage, but raises Attack and Defense by +1 Combat Stage each.  If the user is a Ghost Type, Curse has a Frequency of Scene, and when used the user loses 1/3rd of their Max Hit Points and a target Pokémon or Trainer within 8 meters of the user becomes Cursed. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented in any way. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Safe Option
Cut	Cut ignores up to 5 Damage Reduction (Defenses are not Damage Reduction). Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Dark Pulse	Dark Pulse Flinches the target on 17+ Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Dark Void	The target falls Asleep. Once per Scene, Dark Void may be used as if its range were “Burst 5, Friendly” instead. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Darkest Lariat	This Move ignores the target’s positive Defense Combat Stages and all Damage Reduction. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Dazzling Gleam	None Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Deadly Strike	If Deadly Strike Hits, it is a Critical Hit. Limitation: Not usable by Large Melee Weapons. Weapon Suggestions: Daggers, Bows, Short Spears
Decorate	The target gains +2 CS in both Attack and Special Attack. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Defend Order	Raise the user’s Defense and Special Defense 1 Combat Stage each. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Defense Curl	The user becomes Curled Up. While Curled Up, the user becomes immune to Critical Hits and gains 10 Damage Reduction. However, while Curled Up, the user is Slowed and their Accuracy is lowered by -4. The user may stop being Curled Up as a Swift Action. If the user has Rollout or Ice Ball in their Move List, they do not become Slowed while Curled Up. Furthermore, when using the Moves Rollout or Ice Ball while Curled Up, the user gains a +10 bonus to the damage rolls of those Moves and does not suffer Accuracy Penalties from being Curled Up. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Defog	The Weather becomes Clear, and all Blessings, Coats, and Hazards are destroyed. Clear Weather is the default weather, conferring no innate bonuses or penalties of any sort. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Destiny Bond	All enemy targets in the burst become Bound to the user until the end of the user’s next turn. If a Bound target causes the user to Faint through a Damaging Attack, the Bound target immediately faints after their attack is resolved. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Big Show
Detect	If the user is hit by a Move, the user may use Detect. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Diamond Storm	On Even-Numbered Rolls, Diamond Storm raises the User’s Defense by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Dire Claw	Dire Claw is a Critical Hit on a 19+. Dire Claw gives the target a Status ailment on a 15+. If this is triggered, roll 1d3; on 1 the target is Poisoned; on 2 the target is Paralyzed; on 3 the target is Flinched. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance    Psychic Moves:
Disable	Disable may be used as a Free Action that does not take up a Command whenever the user is hit by a Move. That Move becomes Disabled for the attacker. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Disarming Voice	Disarming Voice cannot miss. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Discharge	Discharge Paralyzes all legal targets on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Dizzy Punch	Dizzy Punch Confuses the target on 17+ Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal  Indices and Reference 395
Doom Desire	Doom Desire does nothing on the turn it is used. At the end of the user’s next turn, Doom Desire hits, even if the user is no longer on the field. Doom Desire cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Double Hit	None Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable
Double Iron Bash	Double Iron Bash Flinches the targets on 15+. This move is affected by Iron Fist. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Double Kick	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Double Slap	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Double Swipe	None Limitations: None Weapon Suggestions: Swords, Dual-Wielded Weap- ons, Throwing Knives  Gear and Items 289
Double Team	The user gains 3 activations of Double Team. The user may either activate Double Team when being targeted by an attack to increase their Evasion by +2 against that attack; or when making an attack to increase their Accuracy by +2 for that attack. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Double-Edge	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Draco Meteor	Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Dragon Ascent	The user’s Defense and Special Defense are each lowered by -1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Dragon Breath	Dragon Breath Paralyzes the Target on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 355
Dragon Claw	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Dragon Dance	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Dragon Energy	For each 10% of HP the user is missing, Dragon Energy’s Damage Base is reduced by 1. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Dragon Pulse	None Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Dragon Rage	If it hits, Dragon Rage causes the target to lose 15 Hit Points. Dragon Rage is Special and interacts with other moves and effects as such (Special Evasion may be applied to avoid it, Mirror Coat can reflect it, etc.). Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Dragon Rush	The target is Pushed 3 meters. Dragon Rush Flinches the target on 17+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Dragon Tail	The target is Pushed 6 meters minus their Weight Class. On a roll of 15+, the target is also Tripped. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Big Show
Drain Punch	After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Good Show!
Draining Kiss	After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Good Show!
Dream Eater	Dream Eater can only target Sleeping Pokémon or Trainers. After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Dream Eater does not wake up sleeping targets. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Drill Peck	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Drill Run	Drill Run is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Drum Beating	The target’s Speed is lowered by 1 CS. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Big Show
Dual Chop	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Dynamax Cannon	The DB of Dynamax Cannon increases by +2 for each positive CS the target has, to a maximum of DB 20. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Unsettling
Dynamic Punch	Dynamic Punch Confuses the target. Dynamic Punch ignores the target’s Evasion if they are Flanked. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Earth Power	Earth Power lowers the Special Defense of all Legal Targets 1 Combat Stage on 16+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Desperation  Indices and Reference 386
Earthquake	Earthquake can hit targets that are underground, including those using the Move Dig. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Echoed Voice	If Echoed Voice was used by any Pokémon or Trainer in the Encounter on the previous round, increase its Damage Base by +4. If Echoed Voice was used by any Pokémon or Trainers during both the previous two rounds, increase its Damage Base by +8. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable
Eerie Impulse	The target’s Special Attack is lowered 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Excitement
Eerie Spell	The user may choose to Disable the target’s last Move used. This effect may only be activated once per Scene. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Egg Bomb	None. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Electric Terrain	The field becomes Electrified for 5 rounds. While Electrified, Pokémon and Trainers touching the ground are immune to Sleep, and Electric-Type attacks used by Pokémon and Trainers touching the ground gain a +10 Bonus to Damage Rolls. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Sabotage
Electrify	Until the end of the user’s next turn, the target’s damaging Water-Type attacks and Melee attacks of any Type deal Electric-Type Damage instead of their usual Type. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 357
Electro Ball	The user adds their Speed Stat, including Combat Stages, in addition to their Special Attack when determining the damage dealt by Electro Ball. The Defender in turn subtracts both their Special Defense and Speed Stats from the damage dealt before applying Type Effectiveness. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Double Time
Electroweb	All Legal Targets are lowered 1 Speed Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Embargo	The target cannot use or benefit from held items for the remainder of the encounter. Embargo may only affect one target at a time; if Embargo is used on a new target, the previous target is freed from the effect. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 351
Ember	Ember Burns the target on 18+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Encore	Roll 1d6. On a result of 1 or 2, the target becomes Confused; on a result of 3 or 4 the target becomes Suppressed; on a result of 5 or 6 the target becomes Enraged. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Good Show!
Endeavor	The target loses a Tick of Hit Points for each Injury the user has. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time  Indices and Reference 396
Endure	If the user is hit by a damaging Move, you may use Endure as a Free Action. If the Move would bring Endure’s user down to 0 Hit Points or less, Endure’s user instead is set to 1 Hit Point. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage
Energy Ball	Energy Ball lowers the foe’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Energy Blast	You gain +1 Special Attack on 19+. Limitation: None
Energy Sphere	You gain +1 Special Defense Combat Stage on 19+. Limitation: None
Energy Vortex	The target is put in a Vortex. Limitation: None
Entrainment	The target gains one of the user’s Abilities for 3 turns. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Catching Up
Eruption	For each 10% of Hit Points the user is missing, Eruption’s Damage Base is reduced by 1. Eruption creates a 1 meter burst, but also affects an area 10 meters tall straight up. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Desperation
Esper Wing	Esper Wing is a Critical Hit on an 18+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Expanding Force	After Expanding Force is resolved, you may create Psychic Terrain in a Blast 7, centered on the user, that lasts for 5 turns. Any creatures in those spaces are affected as if by the Field Move Psychic Terrain, rather than any other Field Move. This Effect may trigger only once per Scene. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Explosion	The user’s Hit Points are set to -50% of their full Hit Point value. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented or reduced in any way. The user’s loyalty toward its trainer may be lowered. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Big Show
Extrasensory	Extrasensory Flinches the target on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Extreme Speed	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Fairy Lock	All legal targets become Trapped and Slowed while the user remains in the encounter. This effect ends if the user switches or is Fainted. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Unsettling  Indices and Reference 361
Fairy Wind	None Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Fake Out	You may only use Fake Out with Priority upon joining an encounter; if you do, Fake Out Flinches the target. Switching out resets the requirement of joining an encounter. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Fake Tears	Lower the target’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
False Surrender	False Surrender cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable
False Swipe	False Swipe’s damage cannot bring a target lower than 1 Hit Point. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Façade	If the user is afflicted with a Persistent Status Affliction, Façade’s Damage Base is doubled to DB 14 (4d10+15 / 40). Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Double Time
Feather Dance	All legal targets have their Attack lowered 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Excitement
Feint	If a foe uses a Move with the Shield Keyword in response to one of your actions, you may activate Feint to cause the triggering Move to Fail. Feint is activated as a Free Action. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal  Indices and Reference 397
Feint Attack	Feint Attack cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Desperation
Fell Stinger	If the user successfully knocks out a target with Fell Stinger, raise their Attack by 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Desperation
Fiery Dance	If Fiery Dance successfully hits a foe, it raises the user’s Special Attack by 1 Combat Stage on Even- Numbered Rolls. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Fiery Wrath	Fiery Wrath Flinches the target on a 17+. Once per Scene, Fiery Wrath may instead be used as a Fire- Type Move. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Final Gambit	Final Gambit lowers the user to 0 Hit Points and causes them to Faint. Final Gambit then deals 1 point of damage to the target for every Hit Point lost by the user. Final Gambit does not cause items to activate. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Fire Blast	Fire Blast burns the target on 19+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 370
Fire Fang	Fire Fang Burns or Flinches on 18-19 during Accuracy Check; flip a coin to determine whether the foe gets Burned or Flinches. On 20 during Accuracy Check, the foe is Burned and Flinches. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Fire Lash	The target’s Defense is lowered by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Safe Option
Fire Pledge	If an ally uses Grass Pledge or Water Pledge, you may use Fire Pledge as Priority (Advanced) immediately after their turn to target the same foe. If used in conjunction with Grass Pledge, Fire Hazards are created in a Burst 1 around the target.  If used in conjunction with Water Pledge, a Rainbow is created that lasts for 5 rounds.  Consult the Pledge keyword for additional details. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Fire Punch	Fire Punch Burns the target on 19+ during Accuracy Check. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Fire Spin	The target is put in a Vortex. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
First Impression	You may only use First Impression with Priority upon joining an encounter; if you do, First Impression Flinches the target. Switching out resets the requirement of joining an encounter. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Fishious Rend	Against targets with a lower initiative that have not yet acted this round, Fishious Rend deals +10 damage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Catching Up
Fissure	Roll 1d100. This roll may not be modified in any way.  If you roll X or lower, the target Faints. X is equal to 30 + The User’s Level - The Target’s Level. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Flail	For each Injury the user has, Flail’s Damage Base is increased by +1. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Double Time
Flame Burst	Any Trainers or Pokémon cardinally adjacent to the target lose 5 Hit Points. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Flame Charge	Raise the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Excitement
Flame Wheel	Flame Wheel Burns the target on 19+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reliable  Indices and Reference 371
Flamethrower	Flamethrower Burns the target on 19+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Flare Blitz	Flare Blitz Burns the target on 19+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Flash	The Accuracy of all Legal Targets is lowered by -1. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Unsettling
Flash Cannon	Flash Cannon lowers the target’s Special Defense by 1 Combat Stage on 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Flatter	The target’s Special Attack is raised by +1 Combat Stage. Flatter Confuses the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Fleur Cannon	Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Fling	The user throws a held item, determining the effect of Fling. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Catching Up
Flip Turn	If Flip Turn successfully hits its target, the user deals damage and then immediately is returned to its Poké Ball in the same turn. A New Pokémon may immediately be sent out. Using Flip Turn lets a Trapped user be recalled. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Floral Healing	The target regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. If the field is Grassy Terrain, the target gains 2/3 of its full Hit Point value instead. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Flower Shield	All Grass Type Pokémon in Flower Shield’s area of effect have their Defense raised by +2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Flying Press	Flying Press may deal Flying Type damage if the user wishes. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Focus Blast	Focus Blast lowers the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Focus Energy	The user becomes Pumped. While Pumped, the user’s Critical Range is extended by 2, or 18+ if the Critical Range is not otherwise extended. Being switched will cause this effect to end. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Focus Punch	Use of Focus Punch must be declared as a Priority  (Limited) action at the beginning of the round. Nothing happens at this time. At the end of the round, if the target hasn’t been hit by an attack dealing damage equal to at least 25% of the user’s Maximum Hit Points, the user may Shift and use Focus Punch. Focus Punch’s Frequency is not expended if it is negated by an attack. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Special Attention
Follow Me	Until the end of the user’s next turn, all Foes must target the user when using a Move that targets their opponents. This effect ends if the user is Fainted or Switched out. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Force Palm	Force Palm Paralyzes the target on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Foresight	Foresight may be activated as a Swift Action on the user’s turn. For the rest of the turn, the user’s Normal-Type and Fighting-Type Moves can hit and affect Ghost-Type targets, and the user can see through the Illusion Ability, Moves with the Illusion keyword, and effects created by the Illusionist Capability, ignoring all effects from those. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Forest’s Curse	The target gains the Grass Type in addition to its other Types for 5 turns. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show
Foul Play	The target reveals its Attack stat. When calculating damage, add the target’s Attack stat instead of the user’s Attack stat. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Freeze-Dry	When calculating Weakness and Resistance for Freeze-Dry, Water-Typed targets calculate damage as if Water was weak to Ice. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Freezing Glare	Freezing Glare Freezes the target on a 19+. Once per Scene, Freezing Glare may instead be used as an Ice-Type Move. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Unsettling
Frenzy Plant	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet  Indices and Reference 381
Frost Breath	If Frost Breath hits, it is a Critical Hit. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Frustration	Frustration’s Damage Base is equal to 9 minus the user’s Loyalty Value. Using Frustration may make your Pokémon dislike you. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Desperation
Furious Strikes	For each hit rolled on your Five Strike roll, the target of the attack has their Evasion reduced by 1 for one full round. Limitation: Melee or Short Ranged Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Claws, Nun-Chucks, Staves, Du- al-Wielded weapons
Fury Attack	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Fury Cutter	If Fury Cutter is used successfully and consecutively on the same target, the Damage Base is increased by +4 to a maximum of 16. For example, the first hit would have a DB of 4; the second hit a DB of 8; the third hit a DB of 12; the fourth and further hits a DB of 16. If Fury Cuter misses or fails to damage its target, its Damage Base resets. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Fury Swipes	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable  Indices and Reference 398
Fusion Bolt	If Fusion Flare was used this round or last round by any participant of the encounter, Fusion Bolt has its Damage Base increased by +3. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Fusion Flare	If Fusion Bolt was used this round or last round by any participant of the encounter, Fusion Flare has its Damage Base increased by +3. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Future Sight	Future Sight does nothing on the turn it is used. At the end of the user’s next turn, Future Sight hits, even if the user is no longer on the field. Future Sight cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Gastro Acid	The target’s Ability is disabled until the end of the encounter. If the target has more than one Ability, you choose one of them to disable. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Gear Grind	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Gear Up	All targets with the Plus or Minus Abilities receive +1 Attack and Special Attack Combat Stages Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready
Giga Drain	After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Giga Impact	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Glacial Lance	Legal targets hit by Glacial Lance are Stuck and Trapped until the end of their next turn. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Special Attention
Glaciate	All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 1 Combat Stage. On an Even-Numbered Roll, all Legal Targets on the ground are Slowed. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Glare	Glare Paralyzes the target. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Excitement
Gouge	If both hits of Gouge successfully hit the target, the target gains an Injury. Limitation: Small Melee and Short Ranged Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Claws, Daggers, Throwing Knives
Grass Knot	Grass Knot’s Damage Base is equal to twice the target’s Weight Class. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Grass Pledge	If an ally uses Fire Pledge or Water Pledge, you may use Grass Pledge as Priority (Advanced) immediately after their turn to target the same foe. If used in conjunction with Fire Pledge, Fire Hazards are created in a Burst 1 around the target.  If used in conjunction with Water Pledge, the target and all foes adjacent to the target are slowed and have their Speed reduced by 2 Combat Stages.  Consult the Pledge keyword for additional details. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Grass Whistle	The target falls Asleep. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Grassy Glide	If the user is on Grassy Terrain, Grassy Glide may be used with Priority. After Grassy Glide has been resolved, the user may choose to create Grassy Terrain in the spaces Passed over (including those it started and ended in), that lasts for 5 turns. Any creatures in those spaces are affected as if by the Field Move Grassy Terrain, rather than any other Field Move. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Grassy Terrain	The area becomes Grassy for 5 rounds. While Grassy, all Pokémon and Trainers standing on the ground recover a Tick of Hit Points at the start of every turn, and Grass-Type attacks performed by grounded Pokémon and Trainers gain a +10 bonus to Damage Rolls. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready
Grav Apple	The target’s Defense is lowered by 1 CS. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Gravity	For 5 rounds, the area is considered Warped. While Warped, Moves that involve the user being airborne may not be used. Pokémon cannot use Sky or Levitate Capabilities to end their turn at an altitude higher than 1 meter. Flying-Types and Pokémon with the Ability Levitate are no longer immune to Ground- Type Moves. All Accuracy Rolls receive a +2 Bonus. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Growl	Growl lowers all Legal Targets Attack 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Growth	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage. If it is Sunny, double the amount of Combat Stages gained. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Grudge	You may use Grudge as an Interrupt when a Damaging Attack causes the user to faint. Grudge is activated as a Free Action (does not take up a Command). The attack is resolved as usual, and the user Faints. The attacker that caused the user to Faint becomes Suppressed for the remainder of the encounter; switching and Taking a Breather does not end Suppression when used this way. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Unsettling
Guard Split	The target loses 5 Defense and 5 Special Defense. If they do, the user gains 5 Damage Reduction. These effects last until the end of the scene. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Guard Swap	The user and the target trade Combat Stage values for the Defense Stat, and then for the Special Defense Stat. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal  Indices and Reference 420
Guillotine	Roll 1d100. This roll may not be modified in any way.  If you roll X or lower, the target Faints. X is equal to 30 + The User’s Level - The Target’s Level. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Big Show
Gunk Shot	Gunk Shot Poisons the Target on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Gust	If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Gust can hit them, ignoring Range and has a Damage Base of 8 instead. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Gyro Ball	The target reveals their Speed Stat (including Combat Stages). If it is higher than the user’s (again, including Combat Stages), subtract the user’s Speed Stat from the target’s, and apply the difference as Bonus Damage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Double Time
Hail	The weather changes to Hail for 5 rounds. While it is Hailing, all non-Ice Type Pokémon lose a Tick of Hit Points at the beginning of their turn. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Hammer Arm	The user lowers their Speed 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Harden	Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage
Haze	The Combat Stages of the user and all Pokémon and Trainers in the encounter are set to their default state (usually 0). Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Head Charge	The target is Pushed back 2 meters. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 399
Head Smash	The target is pushed 2 meters. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Headbutt	Headbutt Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Headlong Rush	The user’s Defense and Special Defense are each lowered by -1 Combat Stage.  Headlong Rush may be used as a Free Action at the end of a Sprint Maneuver taken as a Standard Action, as long as the user Shifted at least 3 meters in a straight line towards the target. When used this way, Headlong Rush Trips the target on a hit. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Heal Bell	All targets are cured of any Persistent Status ailments. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Heal Block	Until the end of the encounter, the target may not gain Hit Points or Temporary Hit Points from any source. This effect ends if the target is switched out or Takes a Breather. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Heal Order	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal  Indices and Reference 347
Heal Pulse	Restores 50% of the target’s max Hit Points. Heal Pulse’s user may not target itself with Heal Pulse. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Healing Wish	The user immediately Faints, lowering its HP to 0. The user takes no Injuries from HP Markers when using Healing Wish.  The target is immediately cured of up to 3 injuries, healed to their Maximum Hit Points, and has the Frequency of all Moves restored. Healing Wish may target a Pokémon in a Poké Ball. Healing Wish does not restore the Frequency of Healing Wish or Lunar Dance. Injuries healed through Healing Wish count toward the total number of Injuries that can be healed each day, and this healing is limited by the same. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Safe Option
Heart Stamp	Heart Stamp Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Heart Swap	The targets trade Combat Stage values for each Stat. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Heat Crash	For each weight class the user is above the target, increase Heat Crash’s Damage Base by +2. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Heat Wave	Heat Wave Burns all Legal Targets on 18+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Heavy Slam	For each weight class the user is above the target, increase Heavy Slam’s damage base by +2. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Helping Hand	Helping Hand grants the target +2 on their next Accuracy Roll this round, and +10 to the next Damage Roll this round. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Hex	Once a Scene, if Hex’s target has a Status Affliction, you may have Hex’s Damage Base be 13 instead (4d10+10 / 35). Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives  Indices and Reference 378
Hidden Power	When a Pokémon first obtains the Move Hidden Power, roll 1d20. Hidden Power’s Elemental Type will be changed from Normal to Bug on a result of 1; Dark on 2; Dragon on 3; Electric on 4; Fairy on 5; Fighting on 6; Fire on 7; Flying on 8; Ghost on 9; Grass on 10; Ground on 11; Ice on 12; Normal on 13; Poison on 14; Psychic on 15; Rock on 16; Steel on 17; Water on 18; and on 19 or 20, reroll until you roll another number. This effect is permanent –if Hidden Power is forgotten and relearned, the chosen Type remains the same. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
High Horsepower	High Horsepower may be used as a Free Action at the end of a Sprint Maneuver taken as a Standard Action, as long as the user Shifted at least 3 meters in a straight line towards the target. When used this way, High Horsepower gains Smite. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
High Jump Kick	If High Jump Kick misses, the user loses Hit Points equal to 1/4th of their Max Hit Points. A failure to hit due to a Move with the Shield keyword does not count as a miss. This Move cannot be used if Gravity is in effect. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Hold Hands	Both the user and the target become Cheered. They may give up the Cheered condition when making a Save Check to roll twice and take the best result. Contest Type: Contest Effect:
Hone Claws	The user’s Accuracy is raised by +1, and the user gains +1 Attack Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Horn Attack	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Horn Drill	Roll 1d100. This roll may not be modified in any way.  If you roll X or lower, the target Faints. X is equal to 30 + The User’s Level - The Target’s Level. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Big Show
Horn Leech	After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Howl	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!  Indices and Reference 400
Hurricane	Hurricane Confuses its target on 15+. If the target is in Sunny Weather, Hurricane’s Accuracy Check is 11. If the target is in Rainy Weather, Hurricane cannot miss. If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Hurricane cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 375
Hydro Cannon	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Hydro Pump	The target is pushed away from the user 3 meters. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Hyper Beam	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Hyper Fang	Hyper Fang Flinches the target on 19+ Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Hyper Voice	All Legal Targets are pushed back to the squares immediately outside the blast, away from the user. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Hyperspace Fury	Interrupts may not be triggered against Hyperspace Fury. The user’s Defense is lowered by -1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time
Hyperspace Hole	Make and resolve of Hyperspace Hole’s attacks separately. In between each attack, the user may Shift using their Teleporter capability, ending the Shift next to a legal target. Interrupts may not be triggered against Hyperspace Hole. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Gamble
Hypnosis	The target falls Asleep. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Ice Ball	The user continues to use Ice Ball on each of its turns until they miss any target with Ice Ball, or are not able to hit any target with Ice Ball during their turn.  Each successive use of Ice Ball increases Ice Ball’s Damage Base by +3 to a maximum of DB 15. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reliable
Ice Beam	Ice Beam Freezes on 19+ during Accuracy Check. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Ice Fang	Ice Fang Freezes or Flinches on 18+ during Accuracy Check; flip a coin to determine whether the foe gets Frozen or Flinches. On 20 during Accuracy Check, the foe is Frozen and Flinches. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Ice Hammer	The user’s Speed is lowered by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Good Show    Normal Moves:
Ice Punch	Ice Punch Freezes the target on 19+ during Accuracy Check. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 390
Ice Shard	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Icicle Crash	Icicle Crash Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Icicle Spear	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reliable
Icy Wind	All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Desperation
Imprison	The target is Locked for the rest of the Scene. A Locked target may not use any Moves the user knows. Imprison cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!  Indices and Reference 421
Incinerate	If a target is holding a Held Item or Main or Off- Hand item, they must either drop it immediately or lose a Tick of Hit Points. This may only cause a target to lose at most one Tick of Hit Points, no matter how many items they were holding. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Infernal Parade	Legal targets hit by Infernal Parade are Burned on a 17+.  Once a Scene, if at least one of Infernal Parade’s targets has a Status Condition, you may have Infernal Parade’s Damage Base be 12 instead (3d12+10 / 30). Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage   Grass Moves:
Inferno	Inferno Burns the target. Inferno ignores the target’s Evasion if there are no other combatants or Rough or Blocking Terrain within 2 meters of the target. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Infestation	The target is put in a Vortex. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Gamble
Ingrain	Ingrain applies a Coat to the user, which has the following effect; the user cannot be pushed or pulled, and cannot be switched out.  At the beginning of each of the user’s turn, the user gains a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Safe Option  Indices and Reference 382
Instruct	The target immediately reuses the attack it performed last, ignoring frequency, as a Free Action. They may choose new targets for the copied attack. Instruct may not be used if the Target’s last Move was a Set-Up Move, a Trigger Move, or Instruct, or if the Target is currently affected by Exhaust. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Ion Deluge	An ion cloud is dispersed in the targeted area. All Normal-Type Moves targeting into or originating from the area become Electric-Typed Moves. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Iron Defense	Raise the user’s Defense 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 430
Iron Head	Iron Head Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Iron Tail	Iron Tail lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Jaw Lock	You may perform a Grapple Maneuver against the target as a Free Action. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage
Judgment	Judgment’s Type can be whatever Elemental Type the user wants it to be. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Tease
Jump Kick	If Jump Kick misses, the user loses Hit Points equal to 1/4th of their Max Hit Points. A failure to hit due to a Move with the Shield keyword does not count as a miss. This Move cannot be used if Gravity is in effect. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Jungle Healing	The user and any allies in the burst regain Hit Points equal to 1/4 of their Maximum Hit Point Value, and are cured of any Persistent or Volatile Status Conditions. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Karate Chop	Karate Chop is a Critical Hit on 17+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 366
Kinesis	If the user or an Ally within 6 meters is about to be hit by an attack, the user may use Kinesis as an interrupt. The triggering Accuracy Roll receives a -4 penalty.  This may cause Moves to miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
King’s Shield	If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use King’s Shield. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the attacker’s Attack is lowered by 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Knock Off	Choose one of the target’s Held Items or Accessory Slot Items. It is knocked to the ground. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Land’s Wrath	None. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show
Laser Focus	The next successful damaging attack made by the user is automatically a Critical Hit. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready
Lash Out	If the user has lost CS from a source other than itself since the end of its last turn, Lash Out is instead DB 15 (4d10 + 20 / 45). Any given foe may be the target of this increased damage only once per Scene. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable
Last Resort	Last Resort can only be used after the user has performed 5 other different Moves in its Move List during a single fight, without being switched out. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Safe Option
Lava Plume	Lava Plume burns all targets on 16+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 372
Leaf Blade	Leaf Blade is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Leaf Storm	Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Leaf Tornado	Small or Medium targets in the central square of the blast are not hit. On 15+, all legal targets have their Accuracy lowered by -1. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Good Show!
Leech Life	After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Leech Seed	At the beginning of each of the target’s turns, Leech Seed’s target loses a Tick of Hit Points. Leech Seed’s user then gains Hit Points equal to the amount the target lost. Leech Seed lasts until the target faints or is returned to a Poké Ball. Grass Types and targets immune to Grass Attacks are immune to Leech Seed. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Safe Option
Leer	All legal targets have their Defense lowered by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Excitement
Lick	Lick Paralyzes the target on 15+ during Accuracy Check. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Life Dew	The user and all allies in the burst regain Hit Points equal to 1/4 of their Maximum Hit Points. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Light Screen	Blessing – Any user affected by Light Screen may activate it when receiving Special Damage to resist the Damage one step. Light Screen may be activated 2 times, and then disappears. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Light of Ruin	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Liquidation	The target’s Defense is lowered by 1 Combat Stage on a 17+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Lock-On	The target is Locked-On. The next Move that the user uses against the Target that requires an Accuracy Check cannot miss. Lock-On’s effect, on both the User and Target, is passed on by Baton Pass. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Lovely Kiss	The target falls Asleep. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 401
Low Kick	Low Kick’s Damage Base is equal to twice the target’s Weight Class. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Low Sweep	Lowers the target’s Speed 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Lucky Chant	Blessing – Any user affected by Lucky Chant may activate it when receiving a Critical Hit to cause the attack to instead deal damage as if it was not a Critical Hit. Lucky Chant may be activated 3 times, and then disappears. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Lunar Blessing	The user regains hit points equal to 50% of its Hit Point total, cures all of its Status conditions, and gains +2 Evasion. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Lunar Dance	The user immediately Faints, lowering its Hit Points to 0. The user takes no Injuries from Hit Point Markers when using Lunar Dance. The target is immediately cured of up to 3 injuries, healed to their Maximum Hit Points, and has the Frequency of all Moves restored. Lunar Dance may target a Pokémon in a Poké Ball. Lunar Dance does not restore the Frequency of Healing Wish or Lunar Dance. Injuries healed through Lunar Dance count toward the total number of Injuries that can be healed each day, and this healing is limited by the same. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Lunge	Lunge may be used as a Free Action at the end of a Sprint Maneuver taken as a Standard Action, as long as the user Shifted at least 3 meters in a straight line towards the target. When used this way, Lunge's target receives a -5 penalty to damage rolls for 1 round. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Luster Purge	Luster Purge lowers the target’s Special Defense by 1 Combat Stage on an Even-Numbered Roll. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Mach Punch	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Magic Burst	Foes hit by Magic Burst can’t make Attacks of Opportunity for 1 full round. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only
Magic Coat	If the user is about to get a hit by a Move that does not have a Damage Dice Roll, they may use Magic Coat as an Interrupt. The Interrupted Move’s user is treated as if they were the target of their own Move, with the user of Magic Coat as the user. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Double Time
Magic Powder	The target gains the Psychic Type in addition to its other Types for 5 turns. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Safe Option    Rock Moves:
Magic Room	The area becomes Useless for 5 rounds. While Useless, Pokémon may not benefit from the effects of any Held Items, and Trainers cannot benefit from any Accessory-Slot equipment. This does not affect consumable or activated items, only Items with Static effects or Triggers. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Magical Leaf	Magical Leaf cannot miss. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Magma Storm	The target is put in a Vortex; this effect occurs even if Magma Storm misses its target. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Magnet Bomb	Magnet Bomb cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Magnet Rise	The user gains the Levitate Ability for 5 turns. Magnet Rise may be activated as a Swift Action if the user is otherwise given an action that consumes a Command. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Magnetic Flux	All targets with the Minus or Plus Ability have their Defense and Special Defense raised by +1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Magnitude	When you use Magnitude, roll 1d6.  Magnitude’s Damage Base is equal to 5+X, where X is the value of the d6. Magnitude can hit targets that are underground, including those using the Move Dig. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Mat Block	If the user or an adjacent ally is hit by a damaging attack, the user may use Mat Block. The attack instead does not hit any targets, and it deals no damage and no has effects. You may only use Mat Block during the first round of an encounter. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Maul	The target is Flinched. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Blunt Weapons, Axes
Me First	If an opponent declares a Damaging Attack against the user, and Me First’s user has a higher Speed stat then the target, the user may use Me First as an Interrupt. The User will then use the same Move the triggering foe was about to use on that foe. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Mean Look	The user casts a foul spell on the target, causing it to become Trapped and Slowed for the remainder of the encounter. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Unsettling
Meditate	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready!  Indices and Reference 422
Mega Drain	After the target takes damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Mega Kick	The target is Pushed 2 meters. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Mega Punch	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Megahorn	The target is pushed 1 Meter. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Memento	Memento may be used as a Free Action when the user becomes Fainted. Memento’s target has each of their stats lowered by -2 CS. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Big Show  Indices and Reference 352
Metal Burst	Metal Burst causes all targets in the burst to lose Hit Points equal to the total amount of direct Damage the user has taken since the beginning of this Round. Metal Burst cannot miss. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Double Time
Metal Claw	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Incentives
Metal Sound	All Legal Targets have their Special Defense lowered 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Meteor Mash	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation  Indices and Reference 431
Metronome	Metronome randomly uses any other Move except for After You, Assist, Bestow, Copycat, Counter, Covet, Crafty Shield, Destiny Bond, Detect, Endure, Feint, Focus Punch, Follow Me, Helping Hand, King’s Shield, Metronome, Me First, Mimic, Mirror Coat, Mirror Move, Protect, Quash, Quick Guard, Rage Powder, Sketch, Sleep Talk, Snatch, Snore, Spiky Shield, Switcheroo, Thief, Transform, Trick, and Wide Guard. The GM helps to pick the random Move. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Milk Drink	The target regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. The user may target themselves with Milk Drink. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal  Indices and Reference 402
Mimic	Choose a Move that the target has used during the encounter. For the remainder of the encounter, that Move replaces Mimic on the user’s Move List. Mimic cannot miss. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Mind Blown	The user’s Hit Points are reduced by 50% of their full Hit Point value. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented or reduced in any way. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Big Show
Mind Reader	The target becomes Read to the user until the end of the user’s next turn. The user may end this effect when making an Attack on the user, causing that attack to automatically hit; OR when the Read target uses an Attack against the user, causing that attack to automatically miss. If the user has the Telepathy Capability, the user automatically succeeds on a mind- reading attempt against the target, and may listen to the target’s surface thoughts as long as they remain Read. Mind Reader automatically misses against targets with the Mindlock Capability. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Minimize	The user gains +4 Evasion, and user’s size is lowered to Small for the remainder of the encounter. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Miracle Eye	Miracle Eye may be activated as a Swift Action on the user’s turn. For the rest of the turn, the user’s Psychic-Type Moves can hit and affect Dark-Type targets, and the user can see through the Illusion Ability, Moves with the Illusion keyword, and effects created by the Illusionist Capability, ignoring all effects from those. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Good Show!
Mirror Coat	Mirror Coat may be used as a Reaction when the user is hit by a damaging Special Attack. Resolve the Triggering Attack, with Mirror Coat’s user resisting the attack one step further. After the attack is resolved, if Mirror Coat’s user was not Fainted, the triggering foe then loses Hit Points equal to twice the amount of Hit Points lost by the user from the triggering attack. Note that Mirror Coat is Special, and while it cannot miss, it cannot hit targets immune to Psychic-Type Moves. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Double Time
Mirror Move	Use the Move the target has used on their last turn. You may choose new targets for the Move. Mirror Move cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Double Time
Mirror Shot	All Legal Targets have their Accuracy lowered by -2 on 16+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Mist	Blessing – Any user affected by Mist may activate it when having Combat Stages lowered by any effect; if they do, those Combat Stages are instead not lowered. Mist may be activated 3 times, and then disappears. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Mist Ball	Mist Ball lowers the target’s Special Attack by 1 Combat Stage on an Even-Numbered Roll. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Misty Explosion	The user’s Hit Points are set to -50% of their full Hit Point value. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented or reduced in any way. After Misty Explosion  is resolved, create Misty Terrain in a Blast 7, centered on the user, that lasts for 5 turns. Any creatures in those spaces are affected as if by the Field Move Misty Terrain, rather than any other Field Move. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Misty Terrain	The area becomes Misty for 5 turns. While Misty, all Pokémon and Trainers standing on the ground ignore the first turn of all Status Afflictions, and Dragon-type attacks targeting or originating from a grounded Pokémon or Trainer take a -10 Penalty to Damage Rolls. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready
Moonblast	Moonblast lowers the target’s Special Attack by 1 Combat Stage on 15+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Moongeist Beam	This Move ignores any Abilities that would cause it to fail or miss, such as Dodge or Wonder Guard; those Abilities cannot be activated in response to Moongeist Beam. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show
Moonlight	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. If it is Sunny, the user gains 2/3 of its full Hit Point value. If it is Rainy, Sand Storming or Hailing the user gains 1/4 of their full Hit Point value. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Morning Sun	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. If it is Sunny, the user gains 2/3 of its full Hit Point value. If it is Rainy, Sand Storming or Hailing the user gains 1/4 of their full Hit Point value. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Mountain Gale	The target is Flinched on a 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Sabotage    Normal Moves:
Mud Bomb	The target’s Accuracy is lowered by -1 on 16+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Desperation
Mud Shot	The target’s Speed is lowed by -1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Mud Sport	All targets in the burst, including the user, gain a Coat which grants them 1 Step of Resistance to Electric Type Moves. After a target has been hit by a damaging Electric Type Move, the coat is removed. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Mud-Slap	The target’s Accuracy is lowered by -1. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 387
Muddy Water	As a Shift Action, the user may Move to any open square in Muddy Water’s area of effect without provoking any Attacks of Opportunity. On 16+, the Accuracy of all targets is lowered by 1. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Multi-Attack	Multi-Attack is the same Type as the Memory Disc, Plate, or Drive Item held. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Mystical Fire	Mystical Fire lowers the target’s Special Attack by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Special Attention
Mystical Power	The user receives +1 Combat Stage in their highest non-HP stat. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready
Nasty Plot	Raise the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Natural Gift	Refer to the Move Keywords Berry list. Natural Gift deals damage according to the Berry list and Natural Gift’s Type is also defined there. The Berry’s Digestion Buff is nullified and is not used. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Nature Power	Nature Power uses a Move defined by the Environ keyword. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Tease
Nature’s Madness	The target loses 1/2 of their current Hit Points. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance    Fighting Moves:
Needle Arm	Needle Arm Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Night Daze	Night Daze lowers the target’s Accuracy by -1 on 13+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Unsettling
Night Shade	The target loses Hit Points equal to the level of Night Shade’s user. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Night Slash	Night Slash is a Critical Hit on 18+ Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Nightmare	Nightmare can only hit Legal Targets that are Asleep. The target gains Bad Sleep. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
No Retreat	The user gains +1 CS in each stat. In addition, the user may not be recalled or switched out until the end of the Scene, and counts as Slowed for the purposes of any movement that would end further away from the nearest enemy than the user started. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Get Ready
Noble Roar	Noble Roar lowers all targets’ Attack and Special Attack by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 403
Nuzzle	Nuzzle Paralyzes the target. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Double Time  Indices and Reference 358
Oblivion Wing	The user gains Hit Points equal to Oblivion Wing’s Damage Roll. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Catching Up
Obstruct	If the user is hit by a Move, the user may use Obstruct. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the attacker’s Defense is lowered by 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Octazooka	On an Even-Numbered Roll, the target’s Accuracy is Lowered by 1. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Octolock	The user initiates a Grapple Maneuver with the target, which automatically hits. If successful, until the user no longer has Dominance in the grapple, the target is Trapped and loses 1 CS in Defense and Special Defense at the end of each of their turns. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage
Odor Sleuth	Odor Sleuth may be activated as a Swift Action on the user’s turn. For the rest of the turn, the user’s Normal-Type and Fighting-Type Moves can hit and affect Ghost-Type targets, and the user can see through the Illusion Ability, Moves with the Illusion keyword, and effects created by the Illusionist Capability, ignoring all effects from those. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Ominous Wind	On 19+, the user has each of its stats raised by +1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Origin Pulse	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Desperation
Outrage	After damage is dealt, the user becomes Enraged and Confused. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Overheat	Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Pain Split	The user and the target both lose ½ of their current Hit Points. Add the amount of Hit Points the user and the target lost together, and divide the value by 2. Both the target and the user gain Hit Points equal to this value.  Do not add Injuries from Pain Split from Hit Point Markers until the full effect of the Move has been resolved. Pain Split never causes Massive Damage. Hit Point loss from Pain Split cannot be prevented in any way Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Parabolic Charge	After the targets take damage, the user gains Hit Points equal to half of the total damage they dealt to all targets. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Parting Shot	If Parting Shot successfully hits, the target’s Attack and Special Attack stats are lowered by one Combat Stage and the user is immediately recalled in the same turn. A new Pokémon may immediately be sent out. Using Parting Shot lets a Trapped user be recalled. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Pay Day	Pay Day scatters metal coins equal in value to 1d8 times the user’s level. If it is a trainer battle, the winner of the battle gets to pick up the coins. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Payback	If the target hit the user with a Damaging Move on the previous turn, Payback has a Damage Base of 10 (3d8+10 / 24) instead. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention
Peck	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Perish Song	Perish Song cannot miss. All targets, including the user, receive a Perish Count of 3. At the beginning of each of the target’s turns, their Perish count is lowered by 1. Once a Perish Count reaches 0, set the Pokémon’s Hit Points to 0. A Perish Count disappears if a target returns to their Poké Ball, Takes a Breather, or is knocked out. Perish Song never causes Massive Damage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Unsettling
Petal Blizzard	None. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Big Show  Indices and Reference 383
Petal Dance	After damage is dealt, the user becomes Enraged and Confused. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Phalanx	If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use Phalanx. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the user may immediately perform an Attack of Opportunity against the attacker. Jousting Samurott As hinted by its name, Samurott is based on the samurai warriors of Japanese history, which makes it a good can- didate for a variant Pokémon in more western-inspired settings. Rather than using its horn for cutting attacks like Fury Cutter and Slash, this variant is based on Eu- ropean knights and jousting. In terms of appearance, Samurott’s “armor” and “hel- met” take on the appearance of European plate mail, including a pseudo-visor over its eyes to help protect them. Mechanics: Becomes Water/Steel Type and swaps Spe- cial Attack and Defense in its Base Stats. Replace Fury Cutter with Drill Peck, replace Slash with Iron Head, replace Swords Dance with Iron Defense. Replace the Inner Focus Ability with Run Up.  Genre and Setting 35 Outsider Kabutops Extraplanar beings are a staple of fantasy works, wheth- er they be eldritch entities whose very existence tears apart reality, or simpler more benign but still mysteri- ous beings who hail from worlds quite different from our own. This Kabutops belongs to the former category, and it is well known for slaying mages who act with hu- bris and recklessness in their study of other worlds and dimensions. Adding to its fearsome appearance, its form is unsta- ble and erratic in the Pokémon world, as alien forms of matter and magic struggle to maintain a persistent state of being in a world of Pokémon’s Elemental Types. In one moment, it is ephemeral, easily floating through walls in pursuit of fleeing victims or to make a quick es- cape itself. In the next, it becomes jagged and deadly, a mess of shadowy blades that easily seek out weak points in even the most well-armored opponent. Mechanics: Becomes Rock/Dark-Type or Rock/Ghost- Type. Phase Shift becomes its only Basic Ability. Its Ad- vanced Abilities are Sturdy, Shadow Tag, and Battle Ar- mor. Its High Ability depends on its current typing. As a Ghost-Type, it has Fade Away. As a Dark-Type, it has Super Luck. Replace Aqua Jet with Shadow Sneak, Mega Drain with Pursuit, Slash with Shadow Claw, Ancient Power with Stone Edge, Wring Out with Phantom Force. Ability: Phase Shift At-Will - Shift Action The user changes its Ghost-Typing to Dark-Type or vice versa. Has the Phasing Capability while Ghost-Type, and Mindlock while Dark-Type. Pegasus Rapidash This one is a bit of a no-brainer. The Pegasus is one of the most well-known and recognized mythological crea- tures, and it is quite easy to imagine the majestic Rapi- dash as having a winged variant that soars through the sky. Of course, this raises questions of where such crea- tures came from. They could be magical experiments conducted between wizards and Pokémon Breeders to serve a royal army, or perhaps they’re the creations of bored Gods. Either way, in a setting where these vari- ant Pokémon exist, they are sure to change the face of warfare. Mechanics: Becomes Fire/Flying Type. Gains a Sky Speed of 6 as Ponyta and 9 as Rapidash. Add Wing At- tack as a Level 10 Move. Replace Take Down with Acro- batics, and replace Fury Attack with Brave Bird.  Genre and Setting 36 Re-Cultured Cofagrigus In a modern setting with a well-connected world, it’s easy to take a Pokémon that makes a very specific cul- tural reference like Cofagrigus and explain it away as having been discovered in a faraway land and popular- ized and spread later. However, in many historical settings, such Pokémon are difficult to account for and may be jarring to the overall feel of the setting. In this case, a variant Cofagrigus sim- ply has a different funeral receptacle, rather than a sar- cophagus, fitting for whatever best matches the culture and setting in your campaign.  Don’t forget to change the base form Yamask’s death mask to be appropriate to your campaign’s setting. Mechanics: Re-Cultured Cofagrigus have a Type Shift, the appropriate Move List changes, and a replacement for their Sand Veil Ability. You may rename Mummy to be culturally appropriate for your game. Here are some examples. • Coffin Cofagrigus: This Cofagrigus has a wooden coffin rather than a sarcophagus. Ghost/Grass Type. Loses Sand Veil for Pressure. Replace Haze with In- grain, Ominous Wind with Energy Ball, and add Giga Drain as a Level 42 Move. Adjust TM and Tu- tor Lists according to this new Type. • Burial Tomb Cofagrigus: This Cofagrigus is en- cased in a stone coffin. Ghost/Rock Type. Loses Sand Veil for Sturdy. Replace Haze with Stealth Rock, Ominous Wind with Ancient Power, and add Earth Power as a Level 42 Move. Adjust TM and Tu- tor Lists according to this new Type. • Funeral Pyre Cofagrigus: This Cofagrigus is com- posed of burning sticks and other bits of wood in the shape of a coffin, with a visible skull up top. Ghost/Fire Type. Loses Sand Veil for Flash Fire. Replace Haze with Fire Spin, Ominous Wind with Flame Burst, and add Flamethrower as a Level 42 Move. Adjust TM and Tutor Lists according to this new Type.  Gear and Alchemy 37 Chapter 2: Alchemy and Gear Magical weapons, armor and relics are a staple of Fantasy settings and stories. The entire plots of many works revolve around these artifacts, and their powers are heavy influences to the narrative of others.  From a tabletop perspective, they function as both great plot hooks and as milestones for players to work for.  After all, what sword- man doesn’t want that Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking? That said, its not always so easy to introduce these items to a game.  How rare should they be?  How powerful should they get?  Who makes these items and how much should they sell for?  How much should I make my play- ers work to get that Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking?   Fret not, because Alchemy is here to help answer these questions. Better Living Through Alchemy Historically, Alchemy was an ancient tradition whose practitioners believed it to be the precursor to various powers.  The objectives and traditions that Alchemists followed differed from culture to culture, but there were a few staple trends. The first of these trends was a set of three goals that cropped up very commonly in alchemical traditions: the desire to turn basic metals into noble metals (such as turning lead into gold), the development of an elixir of youth, and the development of a Philosopher’s Stone. The Philosopher’s stone was believed to be a miracle substance that could do a variety of things, but the most common trend was that it was believed to be able to cre- ate life, bring back the dead, or grant immortality. The second of these trend was that Alchemy was seen as a protoscience, mixing mythology, magic, religion, spirituality and other hermetic principals with struc- tured laboratory techniques, theory, terminology and experimental method.  Alchemists had a method to their madness, and their work paved the way for more modern sciences like chemistry and medicine. The third and most relevant to trend to Pokémon, how- ever, would be that most Alchemists believed that ev- erything in our world was composed of four elements: Earth, Air, Fire and Water.  Gear and Alchemy 38 Taking what we know of traditional alchemical practic- es, and extending that to the world of Pokémon, things mesh up pretty well.  The mystical traditions that Alche- mists followed already have precedence in the world of Pokémon through both the various Types of Pokémon and the other supernatural arts that humans are capa- ble of.  Instead of just four elemental types, these Al- chemists had eighteen to work with, and the creation of Pokémon species such as Reuniclus or Mewtwo could have come about from an Alchemist successfully creat- ing a Philosopher’s Stone. If we accept that Alchemy is an understood and prac- ticed form of craftsmanship in the world of Pokémon, it makes it much easier for both players and Game Mas- ters to approach these magical items in a way that’s both accessible, but also quantifiable. For example, revisiting the Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking.  If a player wanted to get an item like this made, it wouldn’t be out of the question to find a black- smith or alchemist, find out what they’d need to get it made and how much the labor would cost, and then go gather the reagents. Or, if the players find a Badass Fire Sword of Fairy But- tkicking in an ancient ruin and wish to sell it, finding out how much its worth gets much easier when the Game Master has an idea what it would take to make this item.  Now if only we had some rules to do that... A Method to the Madness While there’s a lot of mysticism and spiritual tradition surrounding alchemy, at its base are a set of concrete steps and basic procedure that don’t change. Step 1: Choose the Base First off, you need an item that you are attempting to alchemize a magical property upon.  This item is known as the Base of your alchemical formula.  Most mundane equipment, such as weapons, clothing, armor, accesso- ries and tools, make fine Bases. Consumables and perishables typically do not work as Bases, nor does trying to use a living organism as a Base work.  One could, for example, alchemically en- chant some ink and then tattoo it onto a person, but you could not directly alchemize the enchantment onto that person. While a Base that has previously been enchanted can be used as a Base in an attempt to change or empower its enchantment, doing so is not easy and the other re- agents required to successfully perform the procedure are both scarce, and expensive. Step 2: Choose the Catalyst The Catalyst is usually an elemental stone, TM, keep- sake, or other common held item. They define the main quality of the alchemized item, usually a Type align- ment but sometimes a particular tendency like being used for Injuries or Flinching. Fossils can also be used as Catalysts, and sometimes especially rare Catalysts can be used such as Type Plates, which have the effect of a normal Type aligned Catalyst but with a bonus. Step 3: Add Extras Extras are typically disposable or consumable items that can give an alchemized item quirks such as berries, type gems, dream mist, cleanse tags, etc. Multiple Extras must often be used in the alchemy formula. Three is a good baseline. As their name implies, Extras aren’t required for Alche- my to work.  Maybe the item is being made on a budget, or someone doesn’t care about the ‘of Fairy Buttkicking’ part of the Badass Fire Sword, so they don’t need the Extras. Step 4: Alchemize! If you haven’t already found an Alchemist to perform the procedure, now’s the time to do so!  Once an Alche- mist has a Base, a Catalyst, and the required Extras, they are ready to perform the procedure. The one caveat here is that an Alchemist can only Al- chemize items when they are within their Alchemical Lodge.  An Alchemical Lodge is essentially a workshop  Gear and Alchemy 39 that contains a collection of symbols, writings, tools, fe- tishes and other mystical materials that help the Alche- mist record their lore, expand their talent and practice Alchemy. The actual contents of these Lodges differ from Alche- mist to Alchemist (an Irish Blacksmith who also prac- tices Alchemy is not going to have the same sort of lodge as an Indian Sherpa), but their functionality is more or less identical in that an Alchemist needs to be in their comfort zone and place of power to perform the ritual. The ritual itself takes an Extended Action to perform, after which the item is enchanted. Alchemical Lodges are normally stationary, but can be set up and taken down in the event the Alchemist has to move.  Setting up or taking down a Lodge takes about an hour, but it can take up to a week for an Alchemist to feel acclimated to it once its been moved to a new location. Handling Alchemy as a Game Master Probably the most important thing a Game Master should be aware of with Alchemy is it is going to se- verely up the power level of your campaign.  Not only will your players be building and finding these items, but your bad guys will need them as well to remain an actual challenge.  This can also come back to haunt you if you give a Boss a really overpowered relic, and your players defeat them and acquire it.  So you should be prepared for some additional prep work should you de- cide to include these items! That said, they are a ton of fun on the player side, and your players will likely really enjoy trying to figure out what they need to get a particular effect on a piece of equipment, or just giving an Alchemist an assortment of random items and seeing what comes out of it. While it might only be an Extended Action to enchant the item, if you feel a little stumped on what the things the players tried to mix together does mechanically you shouldn’t feel pressured to answer on the spot.  Just let your player know that you’re going to need some time to figure out what the item does, and you’ll let them know when you’ve figured it out yourself. Part of the idea behind the Alchemical Lodge existing was to help with this, as it encourages players to do their Alchemy at the beginning or end of a session, when they are still in town and things are either warming up or winding down.  Players should understand that some- times their random ideas are going to stump you, but the results almost always worth the wait. On the topic of these bonuses, keep in mind that many effects will imitate, rival, or exceed what may be given by various Trainer Combat Classes in the system, and you will have to be aware of this as you assign the effects of an alchemized item so as not to inadvertently step on a player’s toes by giving a fellow player an item that mimics or outdoes their own niche. The upside to this is that characters will become defined by the personalized items they carry and accumulate through a campaign as well, which gives an additional level of customization to the players as well as allowing players to play similar concepts and Class spreads while still differentiating their characters from each other, if they so choose. As for Alchemists themselves, if you choose to include alchemized items, you should make them common place enough that its not a hassle for players to find one to get something made.  They should at least be as com- mon as your equivalent of Pokémon Centers. If you got a player who really wants to learn how to be- come an Alchemist, make it a personal subplot for that player to find a mentor, be it an experienced Alchemist or a Legendary Pokémon who will help them out.  We made a choice here to not make an Edge or Feature for this for two reasons.  The first is that we didn’t want to make Alchemy a Feature tax for that player, and the sec- ond is we didn’t want people to take the Feature then be bummed they didn’t get to utilize it often. As for the alchemical reagents themselves, your play- ers typically shouldn’t have to buy Catalysts and Extras.  Gear and Alchemy 40 Buying Bases is fine, as they are usual mundane items that they could pick up anywhere, but outside of the occasional Talismonger, these two groups of reagents should be things they find from exploring or hunting (parts from the carcass of powerful Pokémon make a great idea for Catalysts and Extras), or things they are rewarded with for their actions.  Alchemy is a really fun mini-game for your players when it comes to piecing together items to get specific effects out of them, so try to keep it that way by not taxing them that much on the puzzle pieces that make it fun, and try to throw enough of them out to give them lots of room to work with. When it comes to upgrading the enchantment on an item, or trying to do something unusual with this sys- tem (such as trying to create life or revive the dead), the easiest solution is to get your players to require a Philospher’s Stone to perform what they are trying to do.  How these are actually made or acquired we’ll leave in your hands, but they should be rare enough that ac- quiring one should be a major plot point, a meaningful moral dilemma, or take a significant amount of time and resources to acquire. Catalyst Examples Below we’ve listed some examples of what type of items might be considered a Catalyst, and how they might af- fect the Base item.  Note that additional Moves granted by Alchemized weapons are in addition to the Moves the weapon would normally have. Elemental Stone and Keepsake effects: • On a weapon, change the damage to the Type of the stone at Scene x3 frequency. • On a weapon, Grant a Move that is of the associated Type, usually Simple Weapon tier (Ex: Reaper Cloth → Shadow Sneak). • On armor, grant +5 Damage Reduction against at- tacks that the Type of the armor resists. • On armor, resist an attack the Type of the armor re- sists once a Scene. Type Plate effects: • In addition to normal Elemental Stone or Keepsake effect, grant an Ability associated with the Type (ex: Fox Fire for a Staff + Fire Plate).More powerful cus- tom effects that are in theme with the Type. Held Item effects: • On a weapon, attacks with the weapon have the ef- fect of the Accessory/Held Item (Ex: King’s Rock, Razor Claw, etc). • On armor, grant the wearer a chance to ignore the effects the Held Item causes.  (Ex: King’s Rock grant- ing a chance to resist Flinch). Fossil effects • Grant an Ability known by the Pokémon that it’s a Fossil of (ex: Boots of the Rampardos that grant Run Up). • On a weapon, Grant the Ancient Power Spirit Surge effect to all attacks made with the weapon. Extra Examples Much like the previous section, these are just examples of what some items could grant as an Extra. Type Gem effects • On a weapon with a matching Type Primary Cata- lyst, turn the Simple Weapon tier granted Move into a Fine Weapon tier granted Move or a Status Move (Ex: Shadow Claw instead of Shadow Sneak). • On a weapon, deal +5 bonus damage against ene- mies weak to the Type of the Gem. Berry effects • On armor, give a +2 bonus to Save Checks for the status effect the Berry heals. Cleanse Tag effects • On a weapon, attacks made with the Moves granted by it are treated as if the user had Scrappy. • On a weapon, disable Capabilities of damaged Tar- gets like Invisibility, Phasing, etc. • On armor, grant Immunity to Curse. Dream Mist effects • On a weapon, add a 19-20 sleep effect range on weapon • Grant the Sleep Talk Move.  Gear and Alchemy 41 Example Alchemized Items Keep in mind these items are just examples and not an exhaustive list, but they should help players come up with ideas for items to combine, and ideas for Game Masters for what type of effects would be appropriate for items of a certain quality or cost point. Storm Gloves Reagents: Simple Glove Weapon + Water Stone Small Melee Weapon, grants Aqua Jet. Spread Needle Reagents: Fine Ranged Weapon + Omastar Fossil Short Range Weapon, Grants Barrage. When using Barrage with this weapon, make the 1d8 roll for Five Strike before you roll Accuracy. Then, you attack a number of different targets up to the number of attacks you rolled with a DB 2 attack, as if using Barrage without the Five Strike keyword. Staff of the Nine Flames Reagents: Fine Staff Weapon + Fire Plate + 3x Fire Gem Large Arcane Weapon, grants Flame Burst and the Fox Fire Ability. Blood Scythe Reagents: Fine Scythe Weapon + Big Root + 3x Dark Gem Large Melee Weapon, grants Slash. Once a Scene heal Hit Points equal to half the damage dealt by an attack made with the Weapon, deals +5 damage to enemies weak to Dark. Robes of the Songbird Reagents: Light Armor + Really Freaking Good Altaria Cloud Fluff + 3x Chesto Berry Light Armor, grants the Cloud Nine Ability, +2 to Save Checks vs Sleep. Heartwarming Flute Reagents: Magic Flute (Cures Paralysis) + Shiny Stone + 3x Cleanse Tag Can be used 1/Scene instead of 1/Day, grants up to Occult Rank allies affected by the Flute +5 Damage Reduction against Ghost Attacks for the rest of the Scene.  Gear and Alchemy 42 Brimstone blade Reagents: Fine Knife Weapon + Dark Plate + 3x Fire Gem Small Melee Weapon, Grants Night Slash, Critical Hits with the weapon inflict the Burn Status Effect. Stampede Boots Reagents: Jungle Boots + Cranidos Fossil + 3x Cheri Berry Boots with Naturewalk (Mountains, Caves), Run Up Ability, and +2 to Paralyze Save Checks. Thunder Beast Skewer Reagents: Fine Polearm Weapon + Manectric Mega Stone + 3xLuxray Fangs Large Melee Weapon, grants Thunder Fang and grants Rivalry Ability. Shadow Walkers Reagents: Foot Equipment + Sealed Gengar Soul Original foot slot equipment effects + grants the Shadow Meld Capability Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking Reagents: Fine Longsword + Charizard Mega Stone + 3xColdsteel Ingots Large Melee Weapon, grants Flametounge (A Fire-Shifted Slash).  Moves used with the Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking deal Super Effective damage to Fairy Types. The Candy Hammer Reagents:  Fine Warhammer Weapon + tears of a virgin maiden + 3xRare Candies Large Melee Weapon, attacks made with The Candy Hammer deal Candy Type Damage (Neutral to everything).  Once a day you may lick the Candy Hammer to restore 2 Ticks of Hit Points.  Gear and Alchemy 43 Kaladanda Reagents: Fine Polearm Weapon + Griseous Orb + 3x bottled Spiritomb Souls Large Melee Weapon, grants Phantom Force, Shadow Claw and Shadow Force.  Foes knocked out with this weapon cannot wake again until 24 hours have passed. Svalinn Reagents: Heavy Shield + Regice Core + 3x Occa Berry Heavy Shield, user has immunity to Burn and to Fire Type attacks, allies within 2 me- ters resist Fire one step further. Yata no Kagami Reagents: Mirror + Reshiram’s Light Stone + 2x Fire Gem, 2x Dragon Gem Off-Hand Item, User is immune to Illusion effects and can tell when someone reflected in the mirror is wearing a disguise or is Transformed.  Once Daily you may force a target looking at the mirror to answer a single question truthfully. Ruyi Jingu Bang Reagents: Fine Staff Weapon + Blessed Fire given by an Infernape Outer God + 3x Fight- ing Gem Large Melee Weapon, grants Mach Punch, Fire Punch and Brick Break,.  The wielder has Reach 5 when making attacks with this weapon.  At Scene x2 frequency they may use any attack from this weapon with Smite and as a Burst of size 1 to 3 or a Close Blast of size 2 to 4. Excalibur Reagents: Fine Longsword Weapon + Steel blessed by Arceus + one of each Type Plate Small Melee Weapon, grants Sacred Sword and the Regal Challenge Ability.  You may change Sacred Sword’s Type as a Swift Action. Chaos Dunker Reagents: The Candy Hammer + A Diglett’s Lower Body + A Philosopher Stone Large Melee Weapon, grants Earthquake, Land’s Wrath, and Precipice Blades with the Friendly keyword.  Moves used with Chaos Dunker bypass Ground Immunity. Example Legendary Alchemy Items While the Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking might be awesome, its still not Legendary. These are less like creative alchemy and more like using highly powerful symbolic items, requiring parts from Legendary Pokémon or Philosopher Stones to conjure the “memory” of a legendary artifact and bring it into existence once more. It is not enough to merely possess the ingredients either - knowledge of the legend behind the item is required as well, and a great deal of personal power. Crafting these is usually accompanied by some sort of ritual or a pilgrimage to a sacred place.  Gear and Alchemy 44 Arcane Weapons Game of Throhs introduces a new kind of weapon: Arcane Weapons!  These weapons represent everything from staves, to wands, to magical instruments, and serve as foci for Trainers who favor Special Attacks over normal ones.  A Trainer requires the Arcane Training Feature (found on page 47) in order to wield one of these weapons. Arcane weapons can come in both the Small and Large Melee variety, and can also be Short or Long Ranged. So it’s totally possible for one Trainer to have a Short Ranged Arcane wand, and another to have a Large Melee Arcane staff, for example. They also come at the same price points for Crude, Simple, and Fine weapons listed in the core book.  All Arcane Weapons modify Struggle Attacks to be Special Attacks.  Simple and Fine Arcane Weapons also have their own list of Weapon Moves gained at Novice and Expert Rank. Additionally, you qualify for Arcane Weapon Moves and bonus Struggle Attack Damage Bases using Occult Education Ranks, not Combat Ranks. Additional effects, such as Moves and Abilities, on Alchemized Arcane Weapons are not subject to the normal restriction on Typed Damage that normal Arcane Weapons have, nor do they gain Damage Base bonuses from Arcanist’s Soul Bond. Novice Arcane Weapon Moves
Photon Geyser	This attack uses the highest of the user’s Attack or Special Attack Stat, though it remains a Special Move. This Move ignores any Abilities that would cause it to fail or miss, such as Dodge or Wonder Guard; those Abilities cannot be activated in response to Photon Geyser. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Pierce!	Pierce deals an additional +10 damage against targets with Damage Reduction. Limitations: None Weapon Suggestions: Daggers, Swords, Bows, Spears
Pin Missile	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Plasma Fists	The target’s next damaging Normal Type Move instead becomes Electric Type. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention
Play Nice	Play Nice lowers the target’s Attack by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Play Rough	Play Rough lowers the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 362
Pluck	Pluck takes the target’s Held Item or Accessory Slot Item and attaches it to Pluck’s user, if the user is not holding anything. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Poison Fang	Poison Fang Badly Poisons the target on 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Poison Gas	Poison Gas Poisons all Legal Targets. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Poison Jab	Poison Jab Poisons the target on 15+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Poison Powder	The target is Poisoned. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Poison Sting	Poison Sting Poisons the target on 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Poison Tail	Poison Tail is a Critical Hit on 18+, and Poisons the target on 19+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives  Indices and Reference 416
Pollen Puff	Once per Scene, Pollen Puff may instead be used on an ally; when used this way, the target recovers 50% of their maximum Hit Points and the Move has the Healing keyword. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal    Dark Moves:
Poltergeist	If a target is holding a Held Item or Main or Off- Hand item, they must either drop it immediately or lose a Tick of Hit Points. This may only cause a target to lose at most one Tick of Hit Points, no matter how many items they were holding. On each of the target’s subsequent turns, if it is still holding the item(s) in question it loses a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling    Grass Moves:
Pound	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 404
Powder	The target is dusted with a Coat of flammable powder. If it uses a damaging Fire-Type attack, the attack is negated and instad creates a Blast 3 centered on itself as the powder explodes, and the Coat is removed. All targets within the Blast take damage equal to what the user of the Fire-Type attack would roll for the damage of their attack. This damage is Typeless or Fire- Type, whichever would be more effective. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Powder Snow	Powder Snow Freezes all Legal Targets on 19+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Power Gem	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Power Shift	The user’s Attack stat and Defense stat are switched and the user’s Special Attack stat and Special Defense stat are switched. These changes last for the remainder of the scene, or until the user is switched out or Fainted. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal     Poison Moves:
Power Split	The target has their Attack and Special Attack lowered by 5. If they do, the user gains a +5 bonus to Damage Rolls. These effects last until the end of the scene. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Power Swap	The user and the target trade Combat Stage values for the Attack Stat, and then for the Special Attack Stat. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Power Trick	The user’s Attack stat and Defense stat are switched for the remainder of the scene, or until the user is switched out or Fainted. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Power Trip	This Move gains +2 to its Damage Base for every positive Combat Stage held by the user, to a maximum of DB 20. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Power Whip	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Power-Up Punch	If Power-Up Punch successfully hits a target, the user’s Attack is raised by +1 Combat Stage Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Catching Up
Precipice Blades	None. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Present	Roll 1d6; Present has a Damage Base equal to twice the result. On a result of 1, instead of taking damage, the target gains 20 Hit Points. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Protect	If the user is hit by a Move, the user may use Protect. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Psybeam	Psybeam Confuses the target on 19+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 423
Psych Up	The user’s Combat Stages are changed to match the target’s Combat Stages. Psych Up cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Psychic	The target is Pushed 1 meter in any direction. Psychic lowers the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Psychic Fangs	Light Screen, Reflect and Aurora Veil cannot be declared in response to Psychic Fangs. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Psychic Terrain	The Field becomes Weird for five rounds. While the Field is Weird, non-Flying and non- Levitating Pokémon cannot declare Priority or Interrupt Moves outside their own Initiatives. Damaging Psychic-Type attacks deal an additional 10 damage Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Psycho Boost	Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage is resolved. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Psycho Cut	Psycho Cut is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Psycho Shift	The user is cured of a Status ailment and the target is given that Status ailment. Psycho Shift cannot miss. Psycho Shift can only be used if the user has a Status ailment and the target does not have the status ailment that is being transferred. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Psyshield Bash	The user gains +5 DR for one full round. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show
Psyshock	When calculating damage, the target subtracts their Defense from Psyshock’s damage instead of their Special Defense. Psyshock is still otherwise Special ( Special Evasion is used to avoid it, Mirror Coat can reflect it, etc. ) Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Psystrike	When calculating damage, the target subtracts their Defense from Psystrike’s damage instead of their Special Defense. Psystrike is still otherwise Special (Special Evasion is used to avoid it, Mirror Coat can reflect it, etc.) Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Psywave	Roll 1d4; on 1 the target loses Hit Points equal to half the user’s Level; on 2 the target loses Hit Points equal to the user’s Level; on 3 the target loses Hit Points equal to 1.5x the user’s level; on 4 the target loses Hit Points equal to the user’s Level doubled. Do not apply weakness or resistance, and do not apply Stats. Do apply Immunity. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 424
Punishment	Punishment’s Damage Base is raised by +1 for each positive Combat Stage the target has, to a maximum of DB 12. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Purify	The target is cured of all Permanent and Volatile Statuses. For every status removed, the user recovers a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Pursuit	If the foe is fleeing or being switched out, Pursuit may be used as an Interrupt, targeting the triggering foe. When used as an Interrupt, Pursuit grants the user a +5 bonus to all Movement Speeds, and has a Damage Base of 8 (2d8+10 / 19). Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Good Show!
Pyro Ball	The target is Burned on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Attention Grabber    Flying Moves:
Quash	Quash changes the target’s Initiative to 0 for the remainder of the round. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Saving Grace  Indices and Reference 353
Quick Attack	None. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Quick Guard	If the user or an adjacent ally is targeted by a Priority or Interrupt Attack, Quick Guard may be declared as an Interrupt, causing the triggering attack to have no effect. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Quiver Dance	Raise the user’s Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed by +1 Combat Stage each. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Rage	The user becomes Enraged. Until the end of the user’s next turn, if the user is Enraged, the user gains +1 Attack Combat Stage whenever they are damaged by an Damaging Move or Attack. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Rage Powder	All targets hit by Rage Powder are Enraged. While enraged, they must shift to target the user when using a Move or Attack if the user is within reach.  If the user is Fainted or Switched out, all targets hit by Rage Powder are cured of rage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Tease  Indices and Reference 348
Raging Fury	The user becomes Enraged. Legal targets become Enraged on a 16+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Exhausting Act   Flying Moves:
Rain Dance	The weather becomes Rainy for 5 rounds. While Rainy, Water-Type Attacks gain a +5 bonus to Damage Rolls, and Fire-Type Attacks suffer a -5 Damage penalty. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 434
Rapid Spin	Rapid Spin destroys all Hazards within 5 meters, removes Leech Seeds, and removes the user’s Trapped or Stuck status. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Razor Leaf	Razor Leaf is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Razor Shell	Razor Shell lowers the Target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on an Even-Numbered Roll. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Recover	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Recycle	The effect of a consumable item used earlier in the encounter is used again as if it had not been destroyed. The item is still gone. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Reflect	Blessing – Any user affected by Reflect may activate it when receiving Physical Damage to resist the Damage one step. Reflect may be activated 2 times, and then disappears. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Reflect Type	Reflect Type changes one of the user’s Types into one Type of your choice that the target has for the rest of the scene. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Refresh	The user is cured of all Poison, Burns, and Paralysis. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Relic Song	All Legal Targets fall Asleep on 16+. As long as Meloetta knows Relic Song, it may change between Aria Form and Step Form as a Swift Action when using Relic Song, or as a Standard Action otherwise. Both Aria and Step Form must be statted with the same HP Stat. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Excitement
Rending Spell	The target loses a Tick of Hit Points on 16+. Limitation: None
Resonance Beam	All targets have their Special Defense lowered by 1 Combat Stage on 20+. This Effect Range is extended by +1 for each foe targeted by this Move. Limitation: None  Gear and Alchemy 45
Rest	The user is set to their full Hit Point value. The user is cured of any Status ailments. Then, the user falls Asleep. The user cannot make Sleep Checks at the beginning of their turn. They are cured of the Sleep at the end of their turn in 2 rounds. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Retaliate	Retaliate’s Damage Base is doubled to DB 14 (4d10+15 / 40) if an ally has been Fainted by a Damaging Move used by the Target in the last 2 rounds of Combat. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Return	Return’s Damage Base is equal to 3 plus the user’s Loyalty Value. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 406
Revelation Dance	Revelation Dance is the same Type as the user’s primary Type (the first one listed in the Pokédex). Revelation Dance deals +5 Bonus Damage for every other Dance Move used by the user this round, to a maximum of +15. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reliable
Revenge	When declaring Revenge, the user does nothing and may not Shift. At the end of the round, the user may shift and use Revenge. If the target has damaged the user this round, Revenge has a Damage Base of 12 (3d12+10 / 30). Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time
Reversal	For each Injury the user has, Reversal’s Damage Base is increased by +1. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Double Time  Indices and Reference 367
Riposte	None Limitations: Melee or Short-Ranged Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Rapiers, Swords, Daggers
Rising Voltage	After Rising Voltage is resolved, you may create Electric Terrain in a Blast 7, centered on the user, that lasts for 5 turns. Any creatures in those spaces are affected as if by the Field Move Electric Terrain, rather than any other Field Move. This Effect may trigger only once per Scene. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Roar	When declaring Roar, the user does nothing and may not Shift. At the end of the round, the user Shifts and uses Roar.  Targets hit by Roar immediately Shift away from the target using their highest usable movement capability, and towards their Trainer if possible. If the target is an owned Pokémon and ends this shift within 6 meters of their Poké Ball, they are immediately recalled to their Poké Ball. If that Trainer sends out a replacement, they do not lose their Pokémon turn. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Excitement
Roar of Time	All legal targets are Slowed, even if the attack misses. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Rock Blast	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Rock Climb	Rock Climb Confuses the target on 17+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Rock Polish	Raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Rock Slide	Rock Slide Flinches all Legal Targets on 17+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Rock Smash	Rock Smash lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Rock Throw	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 427
Rock Tomb	Rock Tomb lowers the target’s Speed by -1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Desperation
Rock Wrecker	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Role Play	The user gains one of the target’s Abilities, chosen at random, for the remainder of the encounter. This effect ends if the user Faints or is switched out. Role Play cannot miss. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Catching Up
Rolling Kick	Rolling Kick Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Rollout	The user continues to use Rollout on each of its turns until they miss any target with Rollout, or are not able to hit any target with Rollout during their turn.  Each successive use of Rollout increases Rollout’s Damage Base by +4 to a maximum of DB 15. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Roost	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Points. If the user is a Flying Type, it loses the Flying Type until the start of their next turn. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Safe Option
Rototiller	All Grass-type Pokémon in the area raise their Attack and Special Attack 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Special Attention
Round	Round’s Damage Base is equal to 6, plus +2 more for each previous use of Round by any Trainer or Pokémon this round, up to a maximum of DB12. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable
Sacred Fire	Sacred Fire Burns the target on Even-Numbered Rolls. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Sacred Sword	Sacred Sword cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Safeguard	Blessing – Any user affected by Safeguard may activate it when receiving a Status Affliction to ignore the effects of that Status Affliction on their next turn. Safeguard may be activated 3 times, and then disappears. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Salvo	None Limitation: Ranged Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: All Ranged
Sand Attack	The target is Blinded until the end of their next turn. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Sand Tomb	The target is put in a Vortex. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Safe Option
Sandstorm	The weather changes to a Sandstorm for 5 rounds. While it is Sandstorming, all non-Ground, Rock, or Steel Type Pokémon lose a Tick of Hit Points at the beginning of their turn. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage
Sandstorm Sear	The target is Burned on a 15+ Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Unsettling     Ice Moves:
Scald	Scald Burns the target on 15+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Scale Shot	The user’s Speed is raised 1 CS, and the user’s Defense is lowered 1 CS. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation      Electric Moves:
Scary Face	The target’s Speed is lowered 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Scorching Sands	Scorching Sands Burns the target on 15+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance    Ice Moves:
Scratch	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Screech	All Legal Targets have their Defense lowered 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling  Indices and Reference 407
Searing Shot	Searing Shot Burns all targets on 15+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Secret Force	When calculating damage, the target subtracts their Defense from Secret Force’s damage instead of their Special Defense. Secret Force is still otherwise Special. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only Expert Arcane Weapon Moves
Secret Power	Secret Power’s effect depends on Environ. Secret Power’s effect activates on 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Tease
Secret Sword	When calculating damage, the target subtracts their Defense from Secret Sword’s damage instead of their Special Defense. Secret Sword is still otherwise Special ( Special Evasion is used to avoid it, Mirror Coat can reflect it, etc. ). Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Seed Bomb	None Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Seed Flare	All Legal Targets have their Special Defense lowered 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Seismic Toss	The target loses Hit Points equal to the level of Seismic Toss’ user. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Self-Destruct	The user’s Hit Points are set to -50% of their full Hit Point value. This Hit Point loss may not be prevented or reduced in any way. The user’s loyalty toward its trainer may be lowered. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Big Show
Shadow Ball	Shadow Ball lowers the foe’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Shadow Bone	The target’s Defense is lowered by 1 Combat Stage on a 17+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Shadow Claw	Shadow Claw is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 379
Shadow Punch	Shadow Punch cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Shadow Sneak	None. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Sharpen	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Sheer Cold	Roll 1d100. This roll may not be modified in any way.  If you roll X or lower, the target Faints. X is equal to 30 + The User’s Level - The Target’s Level. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Big Show
Shell Side Arm	This attack uses the highest of the user’s Attack or Special Attack Stat, though this does not change the Class of the Move. In addition, if the target’s Defense is lower than its Special Defense, this attack targets Defense, becoming a Physical Move. The target is poisoned on a 17+. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet    Psychic Moves:
Shell Smash	Raise the user’s Attack 2 Combat Stages, raise the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages and raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. Lower the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and lower the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Shell Trap	If the user is hit by a Melee attack, they may use Shell Trap as an Interrupt. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation    Flying Moves:
Shelter	The user gains +1 CS in Defense and Special Defense, and +2 Evasion. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage      Water Moves:
Shift Gear	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Shock Wave	Shock Wave cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Shore Up	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. If it is Sand Storming, the user gains 2/3 of its full Hit Point value instead. If it is Sunny, Rainy or Hailing the user gains 1/4 of their full Hit Point value instead. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Signal Beam	Signal Beam confuses the target on 19+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Incentives
Silver Wind	On 19+, the user has each of its stats raised by +1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Incentives
Simple Beam	You choose one of the target’s Abilities. Simple Beam changes that Ability to Simple for the remainder of the encounter. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Sing	All legal Targets fall Asleep. On a miss, Sing instead causes targets to become Slowed and suffer a -2 penalty to their Evasion until the end of the user’s next turn. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Sketch	Sketch cannot miss. Once Sketch has been used, remove Sketch from the user’s Move list. The last Move that the target used is added to the user’s Move list permanently. Sketch may not be Interrupted or Intercepted. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Skill Swap	The user loses one of their Abilities, selected by the user, and gains one the target’s Abilities, selected at random, for the remainder of encounter. The target loses the copied Ability, and gains the user’s lost Ability.  This effect ends if either the target or the user is Switched out or Fainted, but only for that Pokémon or Trainer. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Skitter Smack	The user Shifts up to its Overland Capability, ignoring Attacks of Opportunity, before attacking with Skitter Smack. On a hit, the target’s Special Attack is lowered 1 CS. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reliable  .     Dark Moves:
Sky Uppercut	Sky Uppercut may be used as an Interrupt when against a target initiating Bounce, Fly, or Sky Drop to allow the user to Shift and use Sky Uppercut. If Sky Uppercut successfully hits its target, the triggering Move fails (though the target may take their next turn normally). Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Slack Off	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Points. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Slam	Slam may be used as a Free Action at the end of a Sprint Maneuver taken as a Standard Action, as long as the user Shifted at least 3 meters in a straight line towards the target. When used this way, Slam gains the Smite keyword. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Slash	Slash is a Critical Hit on 18+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Sleep Powder	The target falls asleep. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Sleep Talk	Select another of the user’s Moves at random; this turn, the user may Shift and use that Move despite being Asleep. Sleep Talk can be only be used by Sleeping targets. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Slice	None. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Axes, Swords  Gear and Items 291
Sludge	Sludge Poisons the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Sludge Bomb	Sludge Bomb Poisons the target on 15+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Sludge Wave	Sludge Wave Poisons targets on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Smack Down	The target is knocked down to ground level, and loses all Sky or Levitate Speeds for 3 turns. During this time, they may be hit by Ground-Type Moves even if normally immune. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Smart Strike	Smart Strike cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Safe Option
Smelling Salts	If the target is Paralyzed, Smelling Salt’s Damage Base is doubled to 14 (4d10+15 / 40), and cures the target of Paralysis. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Smog	Smog Poisons the target on an Even-Numbered Roll. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Smokescreen	Smokescreen creates a blast of Smoke that covers the target area; the Smoke persists until the end of the encounter, or until Defog or Whirlwind are used. All targets attacking from or into the Smoke receive a -3 penalty to Accuracy. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Snap Trap	The target is trapped in a Vortex. The DC to escape the Vortex is increased by 3. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage    Ground Moves:
Snarl	All Legal Targets have their Special Attack lowered 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Snatch	If the target uses a Self-Targeting Move, you may use Snatch. You gain the benefits of the Self-Targeting Move instead of the target. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Snipe Shot	Snipe Shot is a Critical Hit on 18+. This Move may not be Intercepted, nor may any Abilities, Moves, or Features be activated to change this Move’s target. Any of those existing effects (such as Follow Me) fail. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reliable
Snore	Snore Flinches all legal targets on 15+. Snore may only be used by Sleeping users. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Soak	The target gains the Water Type in addition to its other Types for 5 turns. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Soft-Boiled	The target regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Points. The user may target themselves with Soft-Boiled. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal  Indices and Reference 409
Solar Blade	The user attacks with Solar Blade. If the weather is Rainy, Sandstorming, or Hailing, Solar Blade’s Damage Base is lowered to 6 (2d6+8 / 15). Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention
Sonic Boom	Sonic Boom causes the target to lose 15 Hit Points. Sonic Boom is Special and interacts with other moves and effects as such ( Special Evasion may be applied to avoid it, Mirror Coat can reflect it, etc. ) Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Spacial Rend	Spacial Rend is a Critical Hit on Even-Numbered Rolls. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Spark	Spark Paralyzes the target on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Sparkling Aria	When you hit a target with Sparkling Aria, the user may choose to deal no damage and instead cure that target of Burn, Confusion, Infatuation, or Rage. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Spectral Thief	Before rolling damage, transfer all Combat Stages on the target to the user. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Speed Swap	The user and the target trade Initiative values. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal   Rock Moves:
Spider Web	Spider Web cannot miss. The target is Stuck and Trapped. If the user is freed of the Stuck condition, they are freed of Trapped as well. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Spike Cannon	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Spikes	Set 8 square meters of Spikes within your range, all 8 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Spikes. Spikes cause terrain to count as Slow Terrain, and a grounded foe that runs into the hazards will lose a Tick of Hit Points and become Slowed until the end of their next turn. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 388 Ice Moves
Spiky Shield	If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use Spiky Shield. The user is instead not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the attacker loses a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Spirit Break	The target’s Special Attack stat is lowered 1 CS. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage
Spirit Lance	Spirit Lance deals +3 damage to all targets for each target beyond the first that it successfully hits. Limitation: None  Trainer Classes 46 Chapter 3: Trainer Classes In this chapter you’ll find a variety of classes that are very appropriate in a fantasy setting.  These classes have a heavy slant toward Trainer Combat options, so the way they are divided is a little different than the classes in the core book. Berserker and Rune Master are more general classes that might be a bit out of place in a modern day game that takes heavily after the To-Be-A-Master format, but fit well in most settings. Arcanist, Fortress, Marksman and Skirmisher are weapon specialists; each of these classes embodies a style of martial combat that utilizes weapons.  If Trainers carrying around weapons isn’t normal in your setting, these classes might not be very appro- priate for your setting. Next are the Elementalists, a collection of 18 class- es that represent Trainers with a supernatural tie to a Pokémon type.  These settings fit perfectly for a High Fantasy, high magical shenanigans game.  In a more grounded or gritty game, they might be out of place, or practitioners of them could be hunted and persecuted.  As for why Psychic and Fighting do not have classes listed here, its because we consider Aura Guardian and the Psychic classes in the core book to be their Elementalists.  Trainer Classes 47 General Trainer Edges Weapon of Choice Prerequisites: A Feature with the [Weapon] tag Static Choose a specific weapon type. You gain a +2 Bonus on Opposed Rolls to prevent being disarmed while wielding weapons of your chosen type. If you would be disarmed anyway, you may pay 1 AP to prevent yourself from being Disarmed General Trainer Features Arcane Training [+Special Attack][Weapon] Prerequisites: Novice Occult Education, Elemental Connection or Mystic Senses Static You may use Arcane Weapons.  Attacks made with your Arcane Weapons share the Type of your El- emental Connection.  If you have Mystic Senses, these Attacks deal Normal Type Damage. Arcane Weapon users that qualified through Mystic Senses or Elemen- tal Connection (Normal) gain a +5 Bonus to Damage Rolls  and a +2 Bonus to Effect Range when using Ar- cane Weapon Attacks. When wielding an Arcane Weap- on, you may resist Disarm Maneuvers with your Occult Education.  Smith [Ranked 2] [+Attack] Rank 1 Prerequisites: Novice Focus, Novice Athletics Rank 2 Prerequisites: Adept Focus, Adept Athletics Rank 1 Effect: You may create Simple Weapons for $1000, Light Shields for $1,500, and Light Armor for $4,000. Rank 2 Effect: You may create Fine Weapons for $2,000, Helmets for $1,125, Heavy Shields for $2,250 and Heavy Armor for $5,000. Type Sync Prerequisites: Elemental Connection; a Type-Linked Class*; Adept Medicine, Occult, or Tech Education. Special – Extended Action
Spirit Shackle	The Target is Trapped for 2 rounds. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage     Grass Moves:
Spit Up	For each Stockpiled Count the user has, Spit Up’s Damage Base is increased by +8. If the user has no Stockpiled count, Spit Up cannot be used. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Spite	Spite may be used as a Free Action that does not take up a Command whenever the user is hit by a Move. That Move becomes Disabled for the attacker. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Excitement
Splash	Shift Action - The user may make a single Jump, adding +1 to their Long Jump and High Jump values, and gains +2 Evasion until the end of their next turn. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Spore	The target falls Asleep. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Spotlight	Until the end of the user’s next turn, the target is Blinded and Vulnerable. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Springtide Storm	If the user is not in Therian Forme, the user has each of its stats raised by +1 CS on a 16+. If the user is in Therian Form, the target has each of its stats lowered by -1 CS on a 16+. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Desperation    Fighting Moves:
Stealth Rock	Set 4 square meters of Stealth Rock hazards within 6 meters. If a foe moves within 2 meters of a space occupied by Rocks, move at most one Rock to the offender, then destroy the Rock. When that happens, the Stealth Rock causes a foe to lose a Tick of Hit Points. Stealth Rock is considered to be dealing damage; Apply Weakness and Resistance. Do not apply stats. A Pokémon who has been hit by a Stealth Rock Hazard cannot get hit by another in the same encounter until it is returned to a Poké Ball and then sent back out. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Sabotage
Steam Eruption	Steam Eruption burns all legal targets on a 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Steamroller	Steamroller Flinches the target on 15+. If the target is Small, Steamroller deals an additional +5 Damage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Steel Beam	The user’s Hit Points are reduced by 50% of their full Hit Point value. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented or reduced in any way. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Big Show
Steel Roller	Legal targets hit by Steel Roller are Tripped on a roll of 15+. Any Hazards in spaces Passed through or adjacent to those spaces are removed (they are removed before they can affect the user). If the user moves through an area of Terrain, or a Field-range Terrain is active, those effects immediately end. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance       Water Moves:
Steel Wing	Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 432 Water Moves
Sticky Web	Set 8 square meters of Sticky Web hazards within your range, all 8 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Sticky Web. Sticky Web causes Terrain to become Slow Terrain, and a foe that runs into the hazard has its Speed lowered by one stage, and they become Slowed until the end of their next turn. Flying- type Pokémon and Pokémon and Trainers with Levitate are not affected by Sticky Web. Bug-type Pokémon may move over Sticky Web harmlessly, destroying the Hazards as they do so. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Stockpile	The user adds 1 to their Stockpiled count to a maximum of 3. For each number a Stockpiled count is above 0, raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. If a Stockpiled count is set to 0, the Combat Stages gained from the Stockpiled count are removed. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Stomp	Stomp Flinches the target on 15+. If the target is at least one size category smaller than the user, Stomp deals an additional 10 damage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Stomping Tantrum	If the user’s last attack failed or missed, Stomping Tantrum is DB 15 (4d10+10 / 45) instead. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Unsettling
Stone Axe	Stone Axe is a critical hit on an 18+. Once per scene, on a hit, the target may be put in a Vortex. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable   Steel Moves:
Stone Edge	Stone Edge is a Critical Hit on 17+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Stored Power	For every Combat Stage the user has above 0, add +2 to Stored Power’s Damage Base, up to a maximum of Damage Base 20. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Incentives
Storm Throw	If Storm Throw hits, it is a Critical Hit. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Strange Steam	The target is confused on 17+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Good Show    Fighting Moves:
Strength	You may immediately initiate a Push Maneuver as a Free Action. The Maneuver automatically hits, but you must still make the Opposed Roll. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Strength Sap	The user gains Hit Points equal to the higher of the target's Attack or Special Attack; the target then loses 1 Combat Stage in that Stat. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
String Shot	Targets have their Speed CS lowered by -1. If this lowers their Speed CS to -6, or if their Speed CS was already at -6, the target is instead Stuck. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Struggle Bug	On hit, lowers the target’s Special Attack by -1 CS. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 349
Stuff Cheeks	The user immediately consumes one of its Food Buffs, regardless of any conditions that need to be met, gaining its benefit if applicable. If a Buff is consumed, the user’s Defense CS is raised by 2. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Get Ready
Stun Spore	The target is Paralyzed. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Submission	On an accuracy roll of 15+, the target is Tripped. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 368
Substitute	The user loses 1/4 of their maximum Hit Points. This Hit Point loss cannot be prevented in any way. The user creates an Illusory Substitute Coat, which has Hit Points equal to 1/4th of the user’s full Hit Points +1. If the user would be hit by a Move or attack, instead the Substitute gets hit. Apply weakness, resistance and stats to the Substitute. The Substitute is immune to Status Afflictions and Status Moves. Moves with the Social or Sonic keywords completely ignore and bypass the Substitute. Once the Substitute has been destroyed, the user may be hit as normal. Substitute cannot be used if the user has less than 1/4 of their full Hit Points. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Sucker Punch	If an adjacent foe targets the user with a Damaging Attack, Sucker Punch may be used as an Interrupt Move against the triggering foe. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Sunny Day	The weather becomes Sunny for 5 rounds. While Sunny, Fire-Type Attacks gain a +5 bonus to Damage Rolls, and Water-Type Attacks suffer a -5 Damage penalty. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Sabotage
Sunsteel Strike	This Move ignores any Abilities that would cause it to fail or miss, such as Dodge or Wonder Guard; those Abilities cannot be activated in response to Sunsteel Strike. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Big Show      Water Moves:
Super Fang	The target loses 1/2 of their current Hit Points. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Superpower	Superpower lowers the user’s Attack and Defense by 1 Combat Stage each. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Supersonic	The target becomes Confused. On miss, the target suffers a -2 penalty to Accuracy Rolls for one full round. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Surf	As a Shift Action, the user may Move to any open square in Surf’s area of effect without provoking any Attacks of Opportunity. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Surging Strikes	If Surging Strikes hits, it is a Critical Hit. After attacking with Surging Strikes, hit or miss, the user may Shift 2m, ignoring Attacks of Opportunity from their target. It may then make an additional attack with this Move on a different target. This effect may be repeated a second time, the third attack targeting a creature that has not yet been targeted by either prior attack. Before making each attack roll, the user can elect to give up triggering all remaining additional shifts and attacks. Surging Strikes gains +3 DB for each attack that is given up. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention
Swagger	The target’s Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages. Swagger Confuses the target. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Swallow	If the user’s Stockpiled count is 1, they are healed 25% of their full Hit Point value; if their Stockpiled count is 2, they are healed half of their full Hit Point value; if their Stockpiled count is 3, they are healed back to full Hit Points. After using Swallow, the user’s Stockpiled count is set to 0. If the user has no Stockpiled count, Swallow does nothing. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Sweeping Strike	You may attempt a Trip Maneuver against the target as a free action. Limitation: Short-Range Weapons or Weapons with the Reach Quality Only Weapon Suggestions: Whips, Chains, Staves
Sweet Kiss	The target becomes Confused. On miss, the target suffers a -2 penalty to Accuracy Rolls for one full round. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 363 Fighting Moves
Sweet Scent	Targets hit by Sweet Scent gain a -2 Penalty to Evasion. (Total Evasion may not be lowered to a negative value. ) Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Swift	Swift cannot Miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 411
Switcheroo	The user and the target exchange Held Items or Accessory Slot Items. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Swords Dance	The user’s Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Synchronoise	Synchronoise can only hit targets that share a type with Synchronoise’s user. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives  Indices and Reference 425
Synthesis	The user regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. If it is Sunny, the user gains 2/3 of its full Hit Point value instead. If it is Rainy, Sand Storming or Hailing the user gains 1/4 of their full Hit Point value instead. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Tackle	The target is pushed 2 Meters. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Tail Glow	Raise the user’s Special Attack 3 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Tail Slap	None Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Reliable
Tail Whip	All legal targets have their Defense lowered by 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Tailwind	For the remainder of the encounter, all allied trainers and Pokémon gain +5 to their Initiative. Multiple instances of Tailwind cannot stack. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Take Aim	Raise the user’s Accuracy by +1. If the user per- forms an Weapon Move on their next turn that deals damage, add its Damage Dice Roll an extra time to the damage. Limitations: None Weapon Suggestions: Daggers, Bows, Firearms
Take Down	You may perform a Trip Maneuver against the target as a Free Action. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Take Heart	The user gains +1 CS in all its stats and cures all of its Status conditions. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal        Rock Moves:
Tar Shot	The target gains a Coat that is automatically expended upon being hit with a Fire Type attack in order to make them one step more vulnerable to that attack. In addition, the target’s Speed is lowered by 1 CS. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Sabotage    Steel Moves:
Taunt	The target becomes Enraged. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Tearful Look	Tearful Look lowers all Legal Targets’ Attack and Special Attack 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage     Poison Moves:
Teatime	All participants in the battle may choose to immediately consume one of their Food Buffs, regardless of if the conditions to do so are met. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Safe Option
Techno Blast	Techno Blast’s Type can be any Type while holding the appropriate Drive item or Plate item. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Teeter Dance	Teeter Dance Confuses all Legal Targets. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Telekinesis	The target becomes Lifted. While Lifted, they gain the Levitate Ability, are Slowed, and lose all Movement Capabilities except for the Levitate 4 granted by Levitate (reduced to 2 by the Slow condition). While Lifted, the user may not apply any Evasion bonuses to determine whether they are hit by Moves or not. The Lifted target may use a Shift Action to roll 1d20; on a result of 16+, they stop being Lifted. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Teleport	The user Teleports up to X meters, where X is its Teleporter Capability. Teleport can be used as an Interrupt at any time. Moves that targeted Teleport’s user continue through the desired target’s space if the Move allows for it as if the user hadn’t been there; single target moves simply miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Terrain Pulse	If the user is under the effects of a Terrain, Terrain Pulse has a Damage Base of 10 (3d8+10 / 24). In addition, Terrain Pulse becomes the Type that corresponds with the Move that creates that Terrain. (For example, if in Misty Terrain, it would become Fairy Type.) If the user is under the effects of multiple Terrains, choose one to affect this Move. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal   Poison Moves:
The first line contains the Name of the Move. This	The Effect lists what the attack does in addition to the Move’s damage. Certain effects will only occur if, during Accuracy Roll, a certain number or higher is rolled. Effects do not activate unless the Move hits. Effect Ranges can be extended by other effects. For example, an effect that triggers on 18+ that has its Effect Range extended by +2 now triggers on 16+. Effects such as Features and Abilities that extend the Critical Hit or Effect Ranges of a Move cannot extend them by more than a total of +6 from their natural ranges. Contest Type/Effect: These two Contest Fields indicate what Contest Type the Move is tied to. There are only 5 different Contest Types: Beauty, Cool, Cute, Smart, and Tough. The Contest Effect determines what effect the move has in Contests. See the Contest chapter for more.
They Shift, dragging the other person in the	You may make a Struggle Attack against the triggering foe as an Interrupt.  You may use Attack of Opportunity only once per round. Attacks of Opportunity cannot be made by Sleeping, Flinched, or Paralyzed targets. Attacks of Opportunity can be triggered in multiple ways: »» An adjacent foe uses a Push, Grapple, Disarm, Trip, or Dirty Trick Maneuver that does not target you. »» An adjacent foe stands up. »» An adjacent foe uses a Ranged Attack that does not target someone adjacent to it. »» An adjacent foe uses a Standard Action to pick up or retrieve an item. »» An adjacent foe Shifts out of a Square adjacent to you. Maneuver: Disengage Action: Shift You may Shift 1 Meter. Shifting this way does not provoke an Attack of Opportunity. Maneuver: Disarm Action: Standard
Thief	Thief takes the target’s Held Item or Accessory Slot Item and attaches it to Thief’s user, if the user is not holding anything. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Thousand Arrows	When calculating Weakness and Resistance for Thousand Arrows, Flying-Typed targets calculate damage as if Flying was neutral to Ground. Thousand Arrows ignores the Levitate ability. The target is knocked down to ground level, and loses all Sky or Levitate Speeds for 3 turns. During this time, they may be hit by Ground-Type Moves even if normally immune. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Thousand Waves	Legal Targets are Trapped for 2 rounds. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Tease    Ice Moves:
Thrash	After damage is dealt, the user becomes Enraged and Confused. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Reliable  Indices and Reference 412
Throat Chop	The target cannot use Moves with the Sonic keyword for the next two turns. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Unsettling .     Dragon Moves:
Thunder	Thunder Paralyzes its target on 15+. If the target is in Sunny Weather, Thunder’s Accuracy Check is 11. If the target is in Rainy Weather, Thunder cannot miss. If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Thunder cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Thunder Cage	The targets are trapped in a Vortex. The DC to escape the Vortex is increased by 3. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage       Fairy Moves:
Thunder Fang	Thunder Fang Paralyzes or Flinches on 18- 19 during Accuracy Check; flip a coin to determine whether the foe gets Paralyzed or Flinches. On 20 during Accuracy Check, the foe is Paralyzed and Flinched. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Thunder Punch	Thunder Punch Paralyzes the target on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Thunder Shock	Thunder Shock Paralyzes the target on 17+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Thunder Wave	Thunder Wave cannot miss. Thunder Wave Paralyzes the target. Targets immune to Electric Attacks are immune to Thunder Wave’s effects. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Excitement
Thunderbolt	Thunderbolt Paralyzes the target on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Thunderous Kick	All legal targets hit lose 1 Defense Combat Stage. Once per Scene, Thunderous Kick may instead be used as an Electric-Type Move. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Good Show       Fire Moves:
Tickle	Lower the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and lower the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement
Titanic Slam	On Even-Numbered Rolls, the target is Slowed for one full round. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Blunt Weapons
Topsy-Turvy	The target’s Combat Stages are inverted; +1 Stage becomes -1 Stage, -3 Stages becomes +3 Stages, etc. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Unsettling
Torment	The target becomes Suppressed. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal  Indices and Reference 354 Dragon Moves
Toxic	The target is Badly Poisoned. If the user is Poison Type, Toxic cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement
Toxic Spikes	Set 8 square meters of Toxic Spikes, all 8 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Toxic Spikes next to each other. Toxic Spikes cause Terrain to become Slow Terrain, and a grounded foe that runs into the hazard becomes Poisoned, and Slowed until the end of their next turn. If there are 2 Layers of Toxic Spikes on the same space, it Deadly Poisons the foes instead. Poison-Type Pokémon may move over Toxic Spikes harmlessly, destroying the Hazards as they do so. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage
Toxic Thread	The target is Poisoned and has their Speed lowered by 1 Combat Stage. If the target is already Poisoned, they instead lose a Tick of Hit Points and has their Speed lowered by 2 Combat Stages. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Excitement    Psychic Moves:
Transform	The user targets a Pokémon within 10 meters, and assumes the form of the target.  It gains all of the user’s Moves, gains its Abilities, copies its weight and height and Capabilities. Transform lasts until the user is switched out, KO’d or until the end of the encounter. The user may choose to end the Transformation on its turn as a free action, regaining its previous Move List. The user’s Stats do not change from using Transform. Transform cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Catching Up
Tri Attack	Tri Attack gives the target a Status ailment on 17+ during Accuracy Check. If this effect is triggered, roll 1d3; on 1 the target is Paralyzed; on 2 the target is Burned; on 3 the target is Frozen. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Trick	Both targets must be hit for Trick to succeed. The user may target itself or willing allies with Trick; you do not need to roll for Accuracy Check in these cases. Both targets lose their Held Item or Accessory Slot Item, and gain the other target’s Held Item or Accessory Slot Item. If a target has no Item, it still can gain the other target’s Item. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Attention Grabber
Trick Room	Starting at the beginning of the next round, for 5 rounds, the area is considered Rewinding. While Rewinding, Initiative is reversed, and participants instead go from lowest Initiative to Highest. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Trick-or-Treat	The target gains the Ghost Type in addition to its other Types for 5 turns. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Good Show  Indices and Reference 380 Grass Moves
Triple Arrows	Targets hit by Triple Arrows lose 1 CS in both Defense and Special Defense.  After attacking with Triple Arrows, hit or miss, the user may Disengage 2m and attack a different target with Triple Arrows. This effect may be repeated a second time, targeting a creature that has not been targeted by either prior attack. Before making each attack roll, the user can elect to give up triggering all remaining additional shifts and attacks. Triple Arrows gains +1 Accuracy and +1 DB for each attack that is given up. Triple Arrows always benefits from the Technician Ability.  Once Daily, after all attacks with Triple Arrows have been resolved, the user becomes Pumped. While Pumped, the user’s Critical Range is extended by 2, or 18+ if the Critical Range is not otherwise extended. Being switched will cause this effect to end. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention
Triple Axel	After attacking with Triple Axel, hit or miss, the user may Disengage 2m and attack a different target with Triple Axel. This effect may be repeated a second time, targeting a creature that has not been targeted by either prior attack. Before making each attack roll, the user can elect to give up triggering all remaining additional shifts and attacks. Triple Axel gains +1 Accuracy and +1 DB for each attack that is given up. Triple Axel always benefits from the Technician Ability. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Special Attention    Normal Moves:
Triple Kick	After attacking with Triple Kick, hit or miss, the user may Disengage 2m and attack a different target with Triple Kick. This effect may be repeated a second time, targeting a creature that has not been targeted by either prior attack. Before making each attack roll, the user can elect to give up triggering all remaining additional shifts and attacks. Triple Kick gains +1 Accuracy and +2 DB for each attack that is given up. Triple Kick always benefits from the Technician Ability. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Triple Threat	None Limitation: Large Melee Weapons and Long-Range Weapons Only Weapon Suggestions: Two-Handed Swords, Two-Handed Axes, Bows  Gear and Items 292 Example Weapons Crude Weapons Kitchen Knife Small Melee Weapon Baseball Bat Large Melee Weapon Weighted Rope Short Range Weapon Slingshot Long Range Weapon Simple Weapons Survival Knife Small Melee Weapon Adept
Trop Kick	The target receives a -5 penalty to damage rolls for 1 round. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Double Time    Ground Moves:
Trump Card	Whenever Trump Card is used, the user gains a Trump Count after the attack is resolved. Trump Card’s Damage Base is increased by +2 for each Trump Count. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Exhausting Act
Twineedle	Twineedle Poisons the target on an Accuracy Check of 18+ Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Twister	Small or Medium targets in the central square of the blast are not hit. Twister Flinches the target on 18-20 during Accuracy Check. Any Pokémon Airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop above the Blast are hit, ignoring range, and Twister has a Damage Base of 8 against those targets instead. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 356 Electric Moves
U-Turn	If U-Turn successfully hits its target, the user deals damage and then immediately is returned to its Poké Ball in the same turn. A New Pokémon may immediately be sent out. Using U-Turn lets a Trapped user be recalled. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Uproar	All Pokémon and Trainers within 5 meters of the user are cured of sleep. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Unsettling
V-Create	Lower the user’s Defense, Special Defense, and Speed by 1 CS each. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Vacuum Wave	None Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Saving Grace
Venom Drench	All Poisoned targets have their Attack, Special Attack, and Speed lowered by 1 Combat Stage. Venom Drench cannot miss. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 417
Venoshock	If the target is Poisoned, Venoshock has a Damage Base of 13 (4d10+10 / 35) instead. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives  Indices and Reference 418 Psychic Moves
Vice Grip	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 413
Victory Dance	If the user performs a Fighting Move on their next turn that deals damage, add its Damage Dice Roll an extra time to the damage. Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Get Ready       Fire Moves:
Vine Whip	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Vital Throw	If the user is targeted by a Melee attack and has not yet taken a turn this round, the user may declare Vital Throw. After the triggering attack is resolved, the user may use Vital Throw against the triggering foe as a Reaction. Vital Throw cannot miss. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Desperation
Volt Switch	If Volt Switch successfully hits its target, the user deals damage and then immediately is returned to its Poké Ball in the same turn. A New Pokémon may immediately be sent out. Using Volt Switch lets a Trapped user be recalled. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal
Volt Tackle	Volt Tackle Paralyzes the target on 19+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Wake-Up Slap	If the target is Asleep, Wake-Up Slap has a Damage Base of 10 (3d8+10 / 24) instead, and cures the target of Sleep. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal  Indices and Reference 369 Fire Moves
Water Gun	None Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Water Pledge	If an ally uses Fire Pledge or Grass Pledge, you may use Water Pledge as Priority (Advanced) immediately after their turn to target the same foe. If used in conjunction with Fire Pledge, a Rainbow is created that lasts for 5 rounds. If used in conjunction with Grass Pledge, the target and all foes adjacent to the target are slowed and have their Speed reduced by 2 Combat Stages.  Consult the Pledge keyword for additional details. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Water Pulse	Water Pulse Confuses the target on 17+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 435
Water Shuriken	None Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Reliable
Water Sport	All targets in the burst, including the user, gain a Coat which grants them 1 Step of Resistance to Fire Type Moves. After a target has been hit by a damaging Fire Type Move, the coat is removed. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage
Water Spout	For each 10% of HP the user is missing, Water Spout’s Damage Base is reduced by 1. Water Spout creates a 1 meter burst, but also affects an area 10 meters tall straight up. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
Waterfall	Waterfall Flinches the target on 17+. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance ‘
Wear Down	Wear Down lowers the target’s Defense by 1 Combat Stage on Even-Numbered Rolls. Limitation: None Weapon Suggestions: Blunt Weapons
Weather Ball	If it is Sunny, Weather Ball is Fire-Type. If it is Rainy, Weather Ball is Water-Type. If it is Hailing, Weather Ball is Ice-Type. If it is Sandstorming, Weather Ball is Rock-Type. When a weather effect is on the field, Weather Ball has a Damage Base of 10 (3d8+10 / 24). If there are multiple Weather Effects on the field, choose one type for Weather Ball to be that corresponds with an existing Weather Effect. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Incentives
Whirlpool	The target is put in a Vortex. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Safe Option
Whirlwind	All targets are pushed X meters, where X is 8 minus their weight class. If the Line targets into a Smokescreen, the smoke is dispersed. All hazards in the Whirlwind are destroyed. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Big Show
Wicked Blow	If Wicked Blow hits, it is a Critical Hit. The target is Pushed 6 meters minus their Weight Class. On a roll of 15+, the target is also Tripped. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance     Dragon Moves:
Wide Guard	If an Ally adjacent to Wide Guard’s user is hit by a Move, you may use Wide Guard as an Interrupt. All targets adjacent to Wide Guard’s user, including the user, are instead not hit by the triggering Move and do not suffer any of its effects. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Inversed Appeal  Indices and Reference 429 Steel Moves
Wild Charge	None. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Steady Performance
Wildbolt Storm	The target is Paralyzed on a 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Unsettling       Fairy Moves:
Will-O-Wisp	The target is Burned. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 373 Flying Moves
Wing Attack	None. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Steady Performance  Indices and Reference 377 Ghost Moves
Wish	At the end of the user’s next turn, the target regains Hit Points equal to half of its full Hit Point value. If the user targets themselves and are replaced in battle, the replacement is healed. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Reflective Appeal
Withdraw	The user becomes Withdrawn. While Withdrawn, the user becomes immune to Critical Hits and gain 15 Damage Reduction. However, while Withdrawn, the user cannot Shift, and may only use self-targeting Moves.  The user may stop being Withdrawn as a Shift Action. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Sabotage  Indices and Reference 436 Glossary of Terms Accuracy Check: This is the base value that must be rolled on a d20 to hit with a Move. Evasion is added to this value to determine the value that needs to be rolled to hit a foe. Accuracy Roll: A d20 roll made to use an attack or Move against a foe. Adjacent: Two users that are next to each other, or within 1 meter in game terms, are said to be adjacent to each other. If the effect specifies Cardinally Adjacent this excludes targets that are next to the user diagonally. Ally: Pokémon and Trainers that are on your side, of course. Notably “Allies” does not include yourself. Area of Effect: Area of Effect refers to all squares affected by a particular Move or Feature; often refers to Bursts, Blasts, Lines, or Cones. Area of Effect attacks always use one accuracy and damage roll that is applied to all targets. Capability: Capabilities merely represent what charac- ters “can do” in various fields. Ranges from very “Basic Capabilities” which include lifting strength and Move- ment, to Special Capabilities. Combat Stages: Combat Stages are incremental adjustments to a Pokémon or Trainer’s Stats ranging from -6 to +6 Stages. Each Stage applies a different multiplier to the affected stat. Accuracy and Evasion have changes like Combat Stages but are flat bonuses and penalties ranging from -6 to +6 rather than being associated with multipliers. Often abbreviated as CS in many Moves and Abilities. See page 235 for more information. Direct Damage: Damage dealt by Physical or Special Moves, as opposed to loss of life caused by effects such as poison or hail. Effect Range: Refers to the likelihood of activation of effects that occur dependent on accuracy roll. For example, Ember has an Effect Range of 18-20. If an Effect increases this Effect Range by +2, it would then be 16-20. EOT: A Frequency stands for “Every Other Turn”. So if you did it last round, you can’t do it this round! Hit Points: A value derrived from Hit Points that represents a character’s health and stamina. Damage and Hit Point Loss detracts from Hit Points. HP: A Combat Stat from which your Hit Points are derived. Initiative: Initiative refers to both the general order in which characters act in combat, and the actual number which a Pokémon or Trainer uses to act. Usually, a character’s “Initiative” is simply equal to their Speed Stat, and characters then act from highest initiative to lowest. Certain effects, such as the Move Tailwind, may alter Initiative for a character without altering the Speed Stat itself. Opposed Skill Check: An Opposed Skill Check is a Type of Skill Check in which two participants roll; first the participant that started the check, or the “Initiator”, and then the participant being acted upon – or the “Defender”. Most often, the Defender’s Skill Roll serves as the DC for the Initiator’s Skill Check. An example of an Opposed Skill Check is the Grappling Mechanic. Scene: A unit of narrative time that is used as a Frequency. Any time there’s a timeskip for traveling, the PCs enter or leave a major location such as a town, or the characters catch a breather after a big event like a major battle, it’s a change in Scene. Tick of Hit Points: 1/10th of your Maximum Hit Points. Tick Value refers to this value. One Full Round: From the current Initiative Count to the end of the same Initiative Count during the next round.   Credits PTU System Lead Paradox (aka Doxy) PTU Design Team castfromhp, zoofman Data Manager KujiUn Contributors and Consultants Anise, Aori Radidjiu, Arcran, Domovoi, Gents, Kain, KamenWriter Special Thanks To... A huge thanks to Dr. Mr. Stark, designer of Pokémon Tabletop Adventures; everything here is just a derivative of his work, after all. Information Sourced From Bulbapedia, PokémonDB Legalese Pokémon® is a trademark of Nintendo and does not sponsor, authorize or endorse Pokémon: Ta- bletop United. Pokémon: Tabletop United is a free use fan distribution by fans, for fans of both tabletop RPGs and Pokémon®. Thanks to Our Community Thanks to everyone that has helped us in a million small ways along the way, and given us support and encouragement. And thanks to everyone else involved in creating and designing Pokémon Tabletop Adventures, without which this endeavor would have never started. Contact Us! Official site and blog: http://pokemontabletop.com/ Zetaboards Pokémon Tabletop forum: http://forums.pokemontabletop.com/index/ Doxy’s personal email: i.climb.clouds@gmail.com /tg/ - Traditional Games #PokemonTabletop on the Rizon IRC network at irc.rizon.net Artwork We’ve used artwork from all over the Internet in PTU. If you see your art here and wish to have it removed, contact us at the forums below. Artists: Yuza, HK (nt), Stone, 884, nanananona, sinsimo, jitsu hidari, satobitorotoku, k-mica, Tomioka Jirou, tsutsuka, Eric Muentes, atom, Lupicam, Ringo78, ueshita, aina617, fraosiboi, dendeko, meitei, @@@, shooting428star, o_mi_n, makkim9, mokaapolka, usao 313131, Yuuichi, Shura Skill, Dadada, Nokuran, paperbeatsscissors, Agemono, PurpleKecleon, CactusCheese, utchy2525, roni, 21grams, yapo (mess), mangoshake, Nochita Shin, Mikami, Kane, Zesilo, Juupion, Souji, haru, Toriko, Cyneko, Kaibashira, Yohi, i_gysu, Tetsuko, Kakage, Sa-Dui, Konbu Umauma, srtm, Yakkun, Emunise, Koneri, Yilx, Lechuza, Kashiri Kurosuke, Shuri, komasawa, tomo, kl, tachiuo, homa-Nix, hiyo, yamakaji, betuni, mimizurain, Cartoons!, sin, pun2, akira hou, hunger, jmatsu1, Ucchii, namie-kun, washimi, ako6vR, nuriko-kun, yohi, syui, yoshi (danball), kutta, kaniooyake, yuuichi, Shikihara Mitabi, mol, Mayokiti, Hidu Aki, kissai, Jikei, inuyaki, raizy, mokorei, saboterian, obo  Credits Table of Contents Chapter 1: Introduction What do I Need to Play?.................................... 8 PTU and PTA?.................................................... 8 What’s in the Book? .......................................... 8 Supplement Books/Material............................. 9 What is Pokémon?............................................. 10 Chapter 2: Character Creation Making Trainers...................................................... 12 Step 1: Character Concept................................ 12 Step 2: Create Background................................ 13 Step 3: Choose Edges......................................... 13 Step 4: Choose Features..................................... 13 Sample Backgrounds.......................................... 14 Step 5: Assign Combat Stats.............................. 15 Step 6: Find Derived Stats................................. 16 Step 7: Basic Descriptions................................. 17 Step 8: Choose Pokémon................................... 17 Step 9: Money and Items................................... 17 Character Creation Quick-Start Steps............. 18 Character Advancement........................................ 19 Trainer Progression Chart................................. 20 Retraining............................................................ 22 Tips For New Players............................................. 23 Building Trainer Archetypes................................. 24 Chapter 3: Skills, Edges, and Features Introducing Your Trainer Options....................... 33 Skills ........................................................................ 33 Acrobatics............................................................ 35 Athletics............................................................... 36 Combat................................................................ 37 Intimidate............................................................ 38 Stealth.................................................................. 39 Survival................................................................ 40 General Education............................................. 41 Medicine Education........................................... 42 Occult Education................................................ 43 Pokémon Education........................................... 44 Technology Education....................................... 45 Guile..................................................................... 46 Perception........................................................... 47 Charm.................................................................. 48 Command........................................................... 49 Focus.................................................................... 50 Intuition............................................................... 51 Edges........................................................................ 52 Skill Edges........................................................... 52 Crafting Edges.................................................... 53 Pokémon Training Edges.................................. 53 Combat Edges..................................................... 54 Other Edges........................................................ 56 Features.................................................................... 57 How to Read Features........................................ 57 Feature Tags........................................................ 58 General Features................................................. 59 Pokémon Raising and Battling Features..... 59 Pokémon Training and Order Features...... 60 Combat Features............................................ 63 Other Features................................................ 64 Chapter 4: Trainer Classes Introduction to Trainer Classes............................ 65 How to Read Classes.............................................. 66 The List of Trainer Classes..................................... 67 Introductory Classes.............................................. 73 Ace Trainer.......................................................... 74 Signature Technique Modifications............. 76 Capture Specialist............................................... 77 Capture Techniques....................................... 79 Commander........................................................ 80 Coordinator........................................................ 82 Innovation Moves.......................................... 84 Hobbyist.............................................................. 85 Mentor................................................................. 87 Mentor Lessons.............................................. 89 Battling Style Classes.............................................. 90 Cheerleader......................................................... 92 Duelist.................................................................. 95 Enduring Soul..................................................... 98 Juggler.................................................................. 100 Rider..................................................................... 102 Taskmaster.......................................................... 104 Trickster............................................................... 107 Trickster Techniques..................................... 109 Specialist Team Classes.......................................... 110 Stat Ace................................................................ 111 Style Expert......................................................... 114 Beauty Expert Features................................. 115 Cool Expert Features..................................... 116 Cute Expert Features..................................... 116 Smart Expert Features................................... 117 Tough Expert Features.................................. 117 Type Ace.............................................................. 118 Bug Ace Features............................................ 120 Dark Ace Features.......................................... 120 Dragon Ace Features..................................... 121 Electric Ace Features..................................... 121 Fairy Ace Features.......................................... 122 Table of Contents  Fighting Ace Features.................................... 122 Fire Ace Features............................................ 123 Flying Ace Features........................................ 123 Ghost Ace Features........................................ 124 Grass Ace Features......................................... 124 Ground Ace Features..................................... 125 Ice Ace Features.............................................. 125 Normal Ace Features..................................... 126 Poison Ace Features....................................... 126 Psychic Ace Features...................................... 127 Rock Ace Features.......................................... 127 Steel Ace Features.......................................... 128 Water Ace Features........................................ 128 Professional Classes................................................ 129 Chef...................................................................... 130 Chef Recipes................................................... 132 Chronicler........................................................... 133 Fashionista.......................................................... 136 Fashionista Recipes........................................ 138 Researcher........................................................... 139 General Research Field................................. 140 Apothecary Research Field........................... 141 Apothecary Recipes....................................... 141 Artificer Research Field................................ 142 Artificer Recipes............................................. 142 Botany Research Field................................... 143 Chemistry Research Field............................. 144 Chemistry Recipes......................................... 144 Climatology Research Field.......................... 145 Occultism Research Field............................. 145 Paleontology Research Field......................... 146 Pokémon Caretaking Research Field.......... 147 Survivalist............................................................ 148 Terrain Talents................................................ 151 Fighter Classes........................................................ 152 Athlete.................................................................. 154 Dancer................................................................. 156 Hunter.................................................................. 158 Martial Artist...................................................... 160 Martial Achievements................................... 162 Musician.............................................................. 163 Provocateur......................................................... 165 Rogue................................................................... 168 Roughneck.......................................................... 170 Tumbler............................................................... 172 Supernatural Classes ............................................. 174 Aura Guardian.................................................... 176 Channeler............................................................ 178 Hex Maniac......................................................... 181 Ninja..................................................................... 183 Oracle................................................................... 185 Scrying and Augury....................................... 187 Sage...................................................................... 188 Telekinetic........................................................... 190 Telepath............................................................... 192 Warper................................................................. 194 Chapter 5: Pokémon Basic Pokémon Rules and Introduction.............. 196 Managing Pokémon............................................... 198 Combat Stats....................................................... 198 Pokémon Nature Chart..................................... 199 Abilities................................................................ 200 Moves................................................................... 200 Capabilities.......................................................... 200 Skills..................................................................... 201 Leveling Up............................................................. 202 Tutor Points......................................................... 202 Evolution............................................................. 202 Training Pokémon.................................................. 202 Pokémon Experience Chart.................................. 203 Poké Edges............................................................... 204 Stat and Skill Poké Edges................................... 204 Capability Poké Edges....................................... 205 Mega Evolution....................................................... 206 Sample Pokémon Builds........................................ 207 Loyalty...................................................................... 210 Changing Loyalty............................................... 212 Breeding Pokémon................................................. 213 Optional Rule: Baby Template ......................... 213 Capturing Pokémon............................................... 214 Calculating Capture Rates................................. 214 Pokémon Disposition............................................. 215 Pokémon Fossils..................................................... 216 Fishing...................................................................... 217 Pokémon as Mounts............................................... 218 Using Mounts in Battle...................................... 218 Chapter 6: Playing the Game System Fundamentals............................................ 219 Taking Action..................................................... 219 Opposed Checks................................................. 220 Cooperative Actions.......................................... 220 Margin of Success............................................... 220 How Long Do Actions Take?............................ 221 Extended Skill Checks....................................... 221 Action Points...................................................... 221 Basic Capabilities.................................................... 222 Power................................................................... 222 Throwing Range................................................. 223 Jumping Capabilities.......................................... 223 Movement Capabilities...................................... 223 Playing With Pokémon.......................................... 224 Tips for Players....................................................... 225  Chapter 7: Combat Types and Contexts of Combat............................. 226 Initiative................................................................... 227 Action Types............................................................ 227 Commanding Pokémon........................................ 228 Pokémon Switching................................................ 229 Movement and Positioning................................... 231 Terrain................................................................. 231 Flanking............................................................... 232 Abstracted Combat Distances.......................... 233 Combat Stats........................................................... 234 Basic Stats............................................................ 234 Derived Stats....................................................... 234 Combat Stages.................................................... 235 Making Attacks....................................................... 236 Dealing Damage................................................. 236 Damage Charts................................................... 237 Type Effectiveness................................................... 238 Struggle Attacks...................................................... 240 Struggle Attack Modifying Capabilities.......... 240 Combat Maneuvers................................................ 241 Improvised Attacks................................................. 244 Environmental Attack Effects............................... 244 Other Actions in Combat...................................... 245 Take a Breather .................................................. 245 Precision Skill Checks........................................ 245 Status Afflictions..................................................... 246 Persistent Afflictions.......................................... 246 Volatile Afflictions.............................................. 247 Other Afflictions................................................. 248 Miscellaneous Rules............................................... 249 Suffocating........................................................... 249 Falling Damage................................................... 249 Injuries..................................................................... 250 Gaining Injuries.................................................. 250 Dealing with Injuries......................................... 250 Heavily Injured................................................... 250 Death........................................................................ 251 Coup de Grâce.................................................... 251 Resting...................................................................... 252 Pokémon Centers............................................... 252 Combat Demo......................................................... 253 Chapter 8: Pokémon Contests An Introduction to Contests................................. 261 The Contest Circuit............................................ 261 Differences With Battling.................................. 261 Contest Stats........................................................ 262 Playing a Pokémon Contest.................................. 263 Introduction Stage.............................................. 263 Appeal Points...................................................... 264 Voltage................................................................. 264 Performance Stage.............................................. 264 Turn Order and Position................................... 265 Contest Experience............................................ 265 Contest Effects.................................................... 266 Contest Demo......................................................... 267 Non-Traditional Contest Variants........................ 269 Rotation Contest................................................ 269 Trainer Participant Contest............................... 269 Battle Contest...................................................... 270 Chapter 9: Gear and Items Trainer Essentials ................................................... 271 Poké Balls............................................................ 271 Pokédex............................................................... 271 Poké Ball Chart................................................... 272 Travel Gear.............................................................. 274 Medicines............................................................ 276 Bandages and Poultices..................................... 277 Food Items........................................................... 278 Refreshment Items............................................. 279 Apricorns, Berries, and Herbs.......................... 280 Berry Chart......................................................... 282 Crafting Kits............................................................ 284 Scrap and Crafting Items................................... 285 Equipment............................................................... 286 Weapons.............................................................. 287 Weapon Moves................................................... 288 Adept Weapon Moves................................... 288 Master Weapon Moves.................................. 290 Example Weapons.............................................. 292 Body Equipment................................................. 293 Head Equipment................................................ 293 Feet Equipment.................................................. 293 Hand Equipment................................................ 294 Accessory Items.................................................. 295 Pokémon Items....................................................... 296 Held Items........................................................... 296 Pokémon Toolkits.............................................. 298 Evolutionary Items............................................. 298 Vitamins.............................................................. 299 TMs and HMs..................................................... 300 TM Chart............................................................. 301 Combat Items.......................................................... 302 Chapter 10: Indices and Reference Special Capabilities................................................. 303 Abilities.................................................................... 310 Ability Keywords................................................ 310 Ability List: A–E................................................. 311 Ability List: F–K................................................. 317 Ability List: L–P.................................................. 322 Ability List: Q–U................................................ 327 Ability List: V–Z................................................. 334  Moves....................................................................... 337 Move Keywords.................................................. 339 Range Keywords................................................. 343 Range and Blocking Terrain............................. 345 Bug Moves........................................................... 346 Dark Moves......................................................... 350 Dragon Moves..................................................... 354 Electric Moves.................................................... 356 Fairy Moves......................................................... 360 Fighting Moves................................................... 363 Fire Moves........................................................... 369 Flying Moves....................................................... 373 Ghost Moves....................................................... 377 Grass Moves........................................................ 380 Ground Moves.................................................... 385 Ice Moves............................................................. 388 Normal Moves.................................................... 391 Poison Moves...................................................... 414 Psychic Moves..................................................... 418 Rock Moves......................................................... 426 Steel Moves.......................................................... 429 Water Moves....................................................... 432 Glossary of Terms................................................... 436 Chapter 11: Running the Game Getting Started........................................................ 437 Campaign Type?................................................. 437 Constructing a Pokémon League......................... 438 Running League Matches.................................. 440 League Legality................................................... 440 Alternatives to a Pokémon League....................... 441 Common Region Locales...................................... 442 Populating Your World With Pokémon............... 443 Fun Game Progression...................................... 443 Sensible Ecosystems........................................... 444 Pokémon Behavior and Intelligence................ 446 Pokémon Habitat List............................................. 448 Handling Player Pokémon Knowledge................ 453 Campaign Structure............................................... 454 Creating Compelling Sessions.............................. 455 Pre-Campaign Preparations............................. 455 Break In Case of PC Choices............................ 455 Campaign Prep Examples................................. 456 Basic GMing Tasks................................................. 458 Character Creation And You............................ 458 Starter Pokémon ................................................ 458 Sample Starter Pokémon List............................ 459 Rewards and Experience................................... 460 Calculating Pokémon Experience............... 460 Significance Multiplier.................................. 460 Regulating Experience.................................. 460 Trainer Levels and Milestones...................... 461 Calculating Trainer Experience................... 461 Money Matters............................................... 462 Creating Shops.................................................... 463 Tutors and Other Services............................ 464 Setting Skill Check Difficulties............................. 465 Circumstantial Difficulties................................ 466 Shiny Pokémon ...................................................... 467 Examples of Shiny Pokémon............................ 467 Type Changes.......................................................... 468 Changing Move Type......................................... 468 Pokémon Type Change...................................... 468 Fluffing Type Changes....................................... 469 Example Type Change....................................... 469 Mega Evolution and End-Game Pokémon.......... 470 Quickly Building NPCs......................................... 471 Encounter Creation Guide.................................... 472 Setting Up the Encounter.................................. 472 Basic Encounter Creation Guidelines.............. 473 Quick-Statting Pokémon................................... 474 Running Faster Combat.................................... 474 The Types and Roles of Combat Encounters.. 475 Spicing Up Encounters...................................... 476 Use the Environment..................................... 476 Set Unconventional Victory Conditions..... 477 Defy Player Expectations.............................. 477 Building Recurring Rivals and Villains........... 479 Encounter Creation for Unbalanced Parties... 479 Teamwork in Battles........................................... 480 Creating Gym Challenges................................. 481 Rewards for Gym Challenges....................... 482 Sample Gym Challenge..................................... 483 Nicolette, The Mountain’s Maiden............... 483 Boss Encounters...................................................... 487 Standard Boss Template................................ 487 Multi-Part Enemies....................................... 490 Truly Colossal Foes........................................ 491 Special Boss Powers  ..................................... 491 Other Assorted Boss Tips............................. 492 Common GM Pitfalls............................................. 493 Optional Rules ....................................................... 496 Baby Template..................................................... 496 Ground Attacks + Flying Types........................ 496 Narrative Frequency.......................................... 496 Limited Combat Stage Moves........................... 496 Useful Charts Character Sheet What’s Coming Next?  Introduction 7 Chapter 1: Introduction Welcome to Pokémon Tabletop United, a pen and paper roleplaying game where players play the role of trainers in the world of Pokémon. It is best played with a group of 2-4 players creating Player Characters, or PCs, to act as their avatars in a game world created by their Game Master, or GM. We’re going to presume if you’ve found us that you’re probably familiar with most tabletop roleplaying terminology or have at your disposal someone who can quickly explain the basics to you! Pokémon Tabletop United is designed to handle a variety of different ideas for Pokémon tabletop RPG campaigns. You can use the system for a traditional game where the players take the role of young Trainers receiving their first Pokémon from a Professor as they prepare to leave town for the first time and conquer the Pokémon League. Or you could play a campaign about Pokémon in Space or a Wild West frontier exploration game. This book will provide you with all the core rules you need to play, but it is also packaged with sourcebooks that help you put together less traditional Pokémon campaigns. As you might have guessed already, Trainers play a much more active role in Pokémon Tabletop United than they do in the video games, from giving orders and dictating battle strategy on the fly to actually fighting alongside their Pokémon. Don’t let that last bit scare you though! If you’re wanting to play a lighthearted game where Trainers always cheer on their Pokémon from the sidelines and Team Rocket goes home after they get beaten in a Pokémon battle, that’s totally doable! The options for making Trainers in Pokémon Tabletop United are largely sorted into Classes, much like many other roleplaying games. It’s easy to pick and choose what to allow in a particular campaign to get the type of game you want. That said, all of the Classes presented in this core document are representative of concepts that have appeared in some mainline Pokémon media, whether it be the anime, the manga, or the video games. Even if you’re skeptical of Trainers taking a more active role in their adventures with their Pokémon, we recommend giving it a shot. You can skip ahead to Chapter 3 of this book and skim through the descriptions of the Trainer Classes to get a feel for what kind of game system this is. We’ve striven to make a system where most Pokémon are useful in Pokémon Tabletop United. The game balance and what works is quite different from the video games, and you’ll find a lot of new strategies that are made possible with the rules in Pokémon Tabletop United. We encourage you to try new things and innovate!  Introduction 8 What do I Need to Play? Pokémon Tabletop United runs the gamut of tabletop roleplaying game dice. You’ll use a number of d6s for most common Skill checks, d20s for accuracy rolls in combat, and a variety of other dice for rolling damage in combat, from d4s to d12s. This system provides rules for combat on a grid, though it isn’t necessary to play the game. Distances can be abstracted, but the option is there if you prefer gaming with a mat and minis. Make sure you have the Pokédex PDF document as well. It should be packaged along with this book in the .zip file you downloaded. On the off chance you managed to find this book as a standalone PDF, simply check the forums listed in the contacts section on the credits page or ask around in the listed IRC channel. PTU and PTA? As you may or may not be aware, Pokémon Tabletop United is a parallel successor or “sister system” to Pokémon Tabletop Adventures. For those of you familiar with PTA, you’ll find that many character options in PTU are similar. However, the games differ a lot in structure and mechanics. Trainers and Pokémon share the same set of Combat Stats in Pokémon Tabletop United, which means they’re able to benefit from Combat Stages and be affected by Moves and Abilities that affect them or that rely upon manipulating Stat values. Unlike PTA, there is no Attribute system in PTU. Everything is done via Skills. The Base Class/Advanced Class structure is gone, making the “cross-classing” options from PTA the norm rather than a special exception and allowing more flexibility in building Trainers. And finally, the biggest change in PTU is that there’s a Skill system which smoothens out interactions between Trainers and Pokémon and makes it easier to adjudicate common adventuring tasks and create characters with developed specializations and interests. What’s in the Book? Chapter 2: Character Creation walks you through how to make a character in Pokémon Tabletop United. Chapter 3: Skill, Edges, and Features details some of the basic components of a Trainer character. Chapter 4: Trainer Classes provides you with your Class options – the bulk of your character building. In addition, there’s a list of common Pokémon character archetypes and how to build them in this system. Chapter 5: Pokémon is, of course, about the Pokémon. Everything you need to know to stat up your team is here, along with rules for common Pokémon activities like fishing, breeding, and searching for fossils. Chapter 6: Playing the Game outlines the gameplay mechanics of Pokémon Tabletop United. You’ll also find some player tips here to help you get going on the roleplaying side of things. Chapter 7: Combat has all the rules you’ll need for exciting Pokémon battles! There’s also a combat demo to give you an example of what a battle should look like. Chapter 8: Pokémon Contests gives rules for running these Pokémon performances and competitions known as Pokémon Contests. And of course, there’s a demo showing how a Contest runs. Chapter 9: Gear and Items lists the various items you’ll run across while playing the game, from berries that you harvest in the wild to equipment for your character to the Poké Balls you need for capturing Pokémon. Chapter 10: Indices and Reference is your one-stop resource for looking up how to use all those traits your Pokémon have, such as their Capabilities, Abilities and Moves. There’s also a glossary of terms used in the system for easy reference. Chapter 11: Running the Game is the GM’s resource. It provides tips ranging from how to create a campaign world to making encounters and distributing EXP. A thorough encounter creation guide in this chapter will help ease new GMs into the task of putting together exciting and dynamic battles for their players.  Introduction 9 Supplement Books/Material Hopefully, when you downloaded this document, it came with all the supplements we made for the system as well. If not, then as with the Pokédex, you can check out our forums or contact us through our IRC channel to get a copy of them. First of all, you’ll find character sheets in the .zip file for your use as well as standalone PDFs for some of the more useful charts in the book, such as the Pokémon Experience Chart and the Damage Base Chart. Secondly, you’ll see we’ve made a few supplement sourcebooks for running campaigns in varied genres. We consider PTU to be a versatile toolkit capable of running a variety of adventures in the default Pokémon setting. However, many players and GMs want to go beyond that, and that’s what our supplements are for. The Blessed and the Damned is a supplement dealing with Legendary Pokémon and their treatment as divine entities. Different Pokémon media each take different approaches to Legendary Pokémon, and while we prefer a more restrained and conservative approach for the core book, we also wanted to leave the option open for those who want to portray much more powerful and god-like Legendary Pokémon. In addition to information on putting together a pantheon of Legendary Pokémon for a setting, the book contains rules for Trainers to be given blessings by Legendary Pokémon or to seek their power in other ways. These take the form of templates similar to Trainer Classes called the Touched, Signers, Branded, Messiahs, and Usurpers. Veterans of PTA who glance through PTU and wonder where all the Legendary- associated Trainer Classes went can find similar options in this supplement. Do Porygon Dream of Mareep? is PTU’s science fiction supplement, and it offers rules for many situations that don’t come up in normal PTU play, such as dealing with the vacuum of space and varying gravity levels. While the core PTU rules generally don’t do much to explore or question the origins of the advanced technology in the Pokémon Universe, such as Poké Balls and the storage system, this supplement gives ideas for establishing the nature of these technologies in a campaign setting. Finally, there are new Trainer options for high tech campaigns. First, the Researcher Fields: Engineer com- mands Pokémon-like robots, Upgrader deals in cyber- netic augmentations, Jailbreaker modifies Poké Balls. Second, the Glitch Trainer Class harnesses the reality warping power behind entities such as MissingNo. Game of Throhs is a fantasy supplement that further explores the supernatural elements in Pokémon as well as the use of weapons and armor. While the Pokémon Universe has always included many supernatural elements even among humans, such as those with psychic powers or the ability to read others’ Auras, the core book does not delve particularly deeply into these aspects of the universe. More detailed treatments of these topics can be found in this supplement instead. This, of course, includes a number of Trainer Classes. Those who’ve seen older iterations of our system might note some omissions in this core release. The Rune Master dealing with the Unown are now in this supplement, and the old Elementalist has been split up into many Classes, each representing a single Type and the powers humans can gain related to that Type. Finally, commensurate with this supplement’s more in- depth treatment of weapons and armor, there is are four Weapon Specialist Classes and a Berserker too. Finally, each of these supplements includes plenty of fluff, lore, and even sample settings to help GMs put together campaigns in their respective genres. If this seems a tad overwhelming, don’t worry! None of the supplements are necessary to enjoy this game. GMs who wish to stay true to the source material can confidently use the core book only, and those who wish to try something new can look in the supplements. You’ll occasionally see boxes like this where we’ll clarify rules and give examples and pointers. Please stop by http://forums.Pokémontabletop.com/index/ and go to the Pokémon Tabletop United section to give us feedback. This is a hobbyist-made game, and we’re always looking to improve. So feel free to share your experiences and opinions. The next section is a quick primer on the Pokémon universe for those new to the franchise. If you’re a Pokémon veteran already, then you should read on to Chapter 2: Character Creation. Making a character is the best way to begin learning the game system. Enjoy!  Introduction 10 What is Pokémon? Welcome to the world of Pokémon! Pokémon is a popular franchise spanning many video games, an anime series, and several manga series. The central concept of the franchise is the existence of fantastical monsters called Pokémon. All wildlife takes the form of Pokémon, which can be anything from animals with elemental powers, animated plants, inorganic objects, or even ghosts and spirits. Each Pokémon embodies one or two elemental Types, which range from traditional elements such as Fire and Water to more esoteric ones such as Ghost and Psychic or even animal types like Dragon and Bug. These Types have weaknesses to certain other types and are strong against others. These strengths and weaknesses are an important part of the Pokémon world. Additionally, most Pokémon can Evolve. This refers not to the slow process of change over generations but a quick metamorphosis in which a Pokémon turns into energy and changes into a new form. Evolution can be triggered by many methods, ranging from simply gaining experience in battle to using Elemental Stones or other rare items. Pokémon Trainers People known as Pokémon Trainers capture Pokémon in small spherical devices called Poké Balls that can turn them into energy and store them in stasis. Many Trainers simply collect Pokémon, whether as a hobby or for research, but the most popular use of Pokémon is to battle them for sport. This might sound horribly similar to underground dog fighting, but that couldn’t be further from the truth in Pokémon. It’s an established principle of the setting in the Pokémon universe that Pokémon almost universally enjoy battling and have evolved to be skillful fighters. Trainers develop strong bonds of friendship with the Pokémon they raise to fight for them, and Pokémon battling is a widely televised sport around which much of the world’s economy revolves. Many technologies are at least partially replaced by Pokémon. Electric Types may be used to power generators, Pokémon are often ridden in lieu of using vehicles, and even tasks like construction are made easier with the aid of Pokémon. The Pokémon League Pokémon battling is governed by an organization known as the Pokémon League which sets regulations for Trainers. Beginning Trainers usually receive their first Pokémon at a young age from a Pokémon Professor, a researcher who’s been put in charge of getting new Trainers started. They also often are given a device called a Pokédex which is like a smartphone with a digital encyclopedia on all the known Pokémon species. Trainers often battle each other for fun or for small wagers as they journey, catching new Pokémon in the wilds and training their team as they go. Rivalries are an important part of the Pokémon franchise; childhood friends or siblings may battle each other many times over the course of their Pokémon adventures, testing each other and improving together. Many institutions exist to support and encourage Trainers as they travel. Pokémon Centers are medical facilities that offer free treatment to Trainers’ injured Pokémon, and most shops in town carry a variety of Trainer-centric items, from the all-important Poké Balls to medicines and vitamins for Pokémon or advanced machines that can teach them new battle moves. Trainers who seek out non-violent ways to train and show off their Pokémon often compete in Pokémon Contests, which are performance acts much like dance or musical competitions for people. The Pokémon League sets up a structure of Pokémon Gyms in the cities of a region or country which act as benchmarks for Pokémon Trainers. These Gyms are run by Gym Leaders who usually specialize in a single Pokémon Type, making it important for Trainers to learn the strengths and weaknesses of each Type in order to improve and grow. Trainers who defeat a Gym Leader earn their Gym Badge. Upon earning a certain number of Gym Badges, usually eight, a Trainer qualifies to take on the Pokémon League Tournament, which is an annual event that pits all qualified Trainers against each other for pride and glory. The winner, or sometimes the top few participants, win the right to challenge the Elite 4, a set of truly masterful Pokémon Trainers who embody the best the Pokémon League has to show. The champion of this tournament wins a lot of fame and recognition, not just within the Pokémon League but within society as a whole.  Introduction 11 Post-League Challenges Where do champions of a region’s Pokémon League or other top-ranking Trainers go after they’ve reached their peak in their home region? Many of them simply take on the Pokémon League challenge in other regions, traveling all around the world in pursuit of new experiences, exotic new Pokémon to capture, and stronger Trainers to battle against. Alternatively, some regions have parks called Battle Frontiers specifically to cater to these elite Trainers. Oftentimes, Battle Frontiers are privately sponsored rather than part of the Pokémon League, though they are usually recognized by the League regardless. In practice, they are similar to a cluster of Pokémon Gyms, though the challenges within are much more challenging and often more involved than battles against Gym Leaders. Frontier Brains are the equivalent of Gym Leaders in the facilities in a Battle Frontier. While Gym Leaders and even Elite 4 members often align themselves with a particular Type of Pokémon, even if only for the purpose of their challenge, the Frontier Brains tend to use much more varied teams that require more complex strategies to take on. Not only that, but they also tend to have multiple tiers of challenges and reward successful challengers with medals, prints, symbols, or other Badge equivalents that come in Silver and Gold varieties depending on the tier of the challenge completed. Highly accomplished Trainers may move away from competitive battling entirely and dedicate their lives to other endeavors, or at least take a break. Some will seek out Legendary Pokémon, incredibly rare species of Pokémon that appear in mythological tales. Others will commit themselves to Pokémon research or competing in Contests. It is also not uncommon for Trainers to never challenge the League and dedicate their lives to these activities from the start of their journeys. Law and Order in the Pokémon World Just as many technologies and institutions are built around Pokémon, much criminal activity centers around the creatures as well. Poaching, outright theft, and abuse of Pokémon are common crimes in the Pokémon universe and are the focus of law enforcement. Traditionally, in the Pokémon franchise, each major region in the Pokémon universe houses a large criminal organization that names itself as a Team. Team Rocket is simply a criminal syndicate seeking to steal and exploit Pokémon for money and power, and their modus operandi is to infiltrate the Pokémon League itself and plant high ranking executives as Gym Leaders or members of the Elite 4. Team Magma and Team Aqua on the other hand are ideologically oriented criminal organizations that seek out the power of Legendary Pokémon to expand the land or oceans of the world respectively. Criminal Teams tend to be flashy and have iconic uniforms in the Pokémon world, and they are the center of organized crime. Fighting against them are the International Police or Pokémon Rangers associated with a given region. While the former fight organized crime, the latter focus on Pokémon poaching, crimes in the wilderness, and other activities more suited to being dealt with by a local force. Pokémon Rangers also have the task of patrolling the wilderness for Trainers who have run into trouble during their travels and lending a helping hand. They must be familiar with the wilds in their jurisdiction and be on good terms with local Pokémon populations. Supernatural Elements in Pokémon Pokémon themselves are magical creatures, of course, but there are certain supernatural elements in the Pokémon world that warrant a specific note. Psionic powers are the most common of supernatural powers that can be associated with Trainers and not just Pokémon. They range from telepathy to telekinesis and are usually inborn traits. Aura is the spiritual energy in all living things in the Pokémon franchise. Particular Pokémon and Trainers can perceive or manipulate Aura, which lets them peer into the emotions of others or perform supernatural feats. It can be considered similar to the concept of Chi and is closely associated with the Fighting Type. Ghost Type Pokémon are not given much of an explanation in the main franchise, and we don’t take a stance on their nature in PTU either. Simply put, they may be impressions left by the memories of the departed, the literal souls of the dead, or simply creatures closely associated with death. It’s up to the GM. Finally, the Pokémon world is filled with ancient ruins that may house relics of civilizations past, Legendary Pokémon, or magical artifacts with fantastical effects.  Character Creation 12 Chapter 2: Character Creation Making Trainers Before you can begin playing Pokémon Tabletop United, you first need to create your Trainer character who will be your alter ego in the world of Pokémon. Your character will be the focus of the game and the exciting adventures you have, so making the right character for yourself and for the game campaign is very important! As you first read this chapter, you may come across some terms and rules you don’t immediately under- stand. Don’t worry! We’ll be explaining everything you need to know, and you’ll see green boxes showing a step by step example of character creation. There are a lot of options when it comes to building your character, but at the beginning of this chapter, we want to focus on the step by step process, so you’ll see page references and hyperlinks laid out wherever you would turn to another part of the book to choose options for creating your very own Pokémon Trainer. Before you begin, you’ll want a blank character sheet to fill out. You can find one in the back of this book or as a standalone pdf in the .zip file for this system! Now you’re ready to start writing your character! Step 1: Character Concept You may be tempted to jump into crunching numbers immediately, especially if you’re an experienced role- player. Don’t! Or at least take just a skim through to get an idea of what’s available before coming back and thinking about who you want your Trainer to be. It’s important at this step to talk to the other players and the GM about what kind of campaign you will be playing and what character types the GM is looking for. You may be faithfully following the anime and manga and all play kids setting out on their first Pokémon adventure, or your GM might have in mind something more specific, such as playing rookies in a detective agency under the command of Looker or even as grunts of Team Rocket. You only need a brief idea for now, and you can expand on it later! Example: Lisa is sitting down for her first game of Pokémon Tabletop United, so she’s creating a character. The GM has told the players they’ll all be teenage Trainers leaving their hometown for the first time, and they’ll be receiving their first Pokémon as the game starts. She decides on an energetic girl who’s the daughter of the Poké Ball crafter in town. She’s passionate and eager to put her family’s Poké Balls to use, but she’s a little naive about the dangers of the world.  Character Creation 13 Step 2: Create Background A Background is a brief phrase describing your character’s life experiences and helps determine your Trainer’s starting Skill Ranks. Depending on how your Trainer got to where they are today, they will have acquired different Skills and neglected others. Skills represent conscious interest and training that your character uses to interact with the world, as well as incorporating a Trainer’s natural talent. Skills are used for the most basic interactions between yourself and the game world, and they help determine what Classes and Features your  Trainer qualifies for. You may want to read up on the Skills in Pokémon Tabletop United (page 33) before continuing with writing a Background and the next step in character creation. This is the step where you start taking your Character Concept and fleshing it out a little. Hone in on what your Trainer would have picked up and learned, either from necessity or by their own interests, as they grew up. And then think about what their weaknesses might have been and what sorts of developed skills they would have neglected in that time. Have fun with this process! Remember, you’re determining the baseline from which your Trainer will grow and develop, and you should make sure it is something you’re completely happy with. All Skills except for those modified by your Background begin at the Untrained Rank before Edges and Features are chosen, so your choices here will have a huge impact on your character. A list of example Backgrounds can be found on the following page, but you may simply choose to make up your own, with the approval of the GM, of course. Simply choose 1 Skill to raise to Adept Rank and 1 Skill to raise to Novice Rank. Then choose 3 Skills to lower one Rank, down to Pathetic. These Pathetic Skills cannot be raised above Pathetic during character creation. Be sure to give an evocative name to your custom Background! Example: Lisa thinks her character spends a lot of time playing outside and running around, so she wants a Background that will raise her Athletics Skill. Not wanting to get too complicated, she decides to look over the sample Backgrounds. Fitness Training raises Athletics and Acrobatics, which is a perfect fit. Even better, it lowers Guile, Intuition, and Focus, which Lisa thinks is perfect to represent her character’s naiveté. Step 3: Choose Edges Edges are used to represent a character’s training and development in the broad fields covered by this game’s Skills. The most basic type of Edge is a Skill Edge which simply raises the Rank of one their Skills by one. Keep in mind you cannot raise Skills above Novice at your starting level! However, there are also other Edges which represent more specific training within the area of a single Skill, such as training to be a better Swimmer within the Athletics Skill or learning to better prepare your Pokémon for Contests within the Charm Skill. Starting Trainers begin with four Edges to distribute as they see fit. Example: Lisa decides that her Trainer is a natural leader and spends one of her starting Edges on bringing her Command Skill up to Novice. She also figures that with a family working in the Poké Ball business, her Trainer would be at least passingly familiar with the process for making them. Figuring that her Trainer wouldn’t be interested in the mechanical processes for building modern Poké Balls, Lisa spends one Edge to raise Survival up to Novice, one to focus in the area of Apricorns by taking Apricorn Balls, and one to take the Swimmer Edge. Step 4: Choose Features Features are what really make a Trainer stand out and provide most of their definition and functionality in the game. There are a number of General Features available to all Trainers in Pokémon Tabletop United, but most Features are tied to Trainer Classes. Classes are special Features that act as gateways to groupings of related Features that are strongly tied to a particular concept. If you’re familiar with other RPGs, even if not tabletop RPGs, you probably know of the common set of the Warrior, the Rogue, and the Wizard as character classes. The same idea applies here, but you’ll be finding Classes such as the Ace Trainer, the Coordinator, and the Capture Specialist which are much more tied to the concepts of Pokémon. Starting Trainers begin with four Features to distribute as they see fit. They also choose one Training Feature to gain, regardless of prerequisites.  Character Creation 14 Most players will find it most useful to spend all or a majority of their starting Features on Features in a Class when possible, so as to best define their Trainers at the beginning of the game. While it is technically possible to take three or four different Classes as a starting Trainer, doing so will stretch you very thin with the Skill prerequisites for those Classes and can dilute your Character Concept. Consider starting with just one or two Classes and developing within them and perhaps a General Feature. You can take Steps 3 and 4 in any order, alternating between spending Edges and Features as best suits you. Example: Lisa decides that although her Trainer’s parents develop Poké Balls, she herself hasn’t spent dedicated time to learning how to capture Pokémon with great skill. It’s a good thing too, because she looks at the requirements for Capture Specialist and sees that she would have to redo her starting Edges in order to qualify anyway. Instead, Lisa focuses on the energetic and competitive nature of her Trainer and gives her the Agility Training Feature as her free Training Feature. For her four Features, she starts with the Ace Trainer Class and its Perseverance Feature. She then eyes some of the Features further into the Class but decides that she needs to better reflect her character’s active nature and goes with taking the Athlete Class instead. With one Feature remaining, Lisa chooses Training Regime. Both Athlete and Training Regime have [+HP] tags, so she keeps that in mind for later. Sample Backgrounds At Least He’s Pretty Looks aren’t everything … but they’re better than nothing, right? Rank Up: Adept Charm, Novice Command or Intuition. Rank Down: Combat, Intimidate, and Perception. Book Worm Why go outside? Everything you need to know is right here on Bulbapedia! Rank Up: One Education Skill at Adept, one at Novice Rank Down: Athletics, Acrobatics, and Combat. Hermit You don’t like people, and they tend to not like you. Rank Up: Adept Education Skill, Novice Perception Rank Down: Charm, Guile, and Intuition Fitness Training Maybe you’re a career soldier; maybe you’re just a fitness nut. Either way, check out that body. Rank Up: Adept Athletics, Novice Acrobatics Rank Down: Guile, Intuition, Focus Old Timer Age comes with wisdom and experience, and bad hips. Rank Up: Adept Focus, Novice Intuition or Perception, Rank Down: Acrobatics, Combat, Tech Education Quick and Small You’re kind of skinny and weak, but smart and quick. Rank Up: Adept Acrobatics, Novice Guile Rank Down: Athletics, Intimidate, Command Rough You’re the kind of guy that’s likely to end up with a nickname like ‘Knuckles’ or ‘Spike’. Rank Up: Adept Combat, Novice Intimidate Rank Down: Charm, Guile, Perception Silver Tongued You always know just what to say, but it’s best no one ask you to get sweaty. Rank Up: Adept Guile, Novice Charm or Intimidate Rank Down: Athletics, Combat, Survival Street Rattata Growing up on the street is rough. Well, for all those other suckers. Rank Up: Adept Guile, Novice Perception or Stealth Rank Down: Focus, General Education, Survival Super Nerd You’re smart and cunning, but your social skills … Rank Up: Adept Tech Education, Novice Guile Rank Down: Charm, Intimidate, Intuition Wild Child Maybe you were raised by Mightyenas. Or maybe you just had lousy parents. Rank Up: Adept Survival, Novice Athletics or Stealth Rank Down: General, Tech, and Medicine Education  Character Creation 15 Step 5: Assign Combat Stats Pokémon Tabletop United uses the same 6 Combat Stats used in the Pokémon video games. If you’re familiar with the video games, then these will need no introduction. If not, read on for an explanation! The 6 combat stats are HP, Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed. HP determines your Hit Points, which represent your ability to take hits and keep going in battle. Attack represents how hard you can hit Physically, and it is added to the damage roll of all Physical Damage a Trainer or Pokémon deals. Defense is used to avoid and resist Physical attacks. Whenever a Trainer or Pokémon takes Physical damage, they subtract their Defense stat from the damage first before subtracting damage from their Hit Points. Additionally, for every 5 points a Pokémon or Trainer has in Defense, they gain +1 Physical Evasion, up to a maximum of +6 at 30 Defense. Special Attack represents how hard you can hit with Special attacks, and it is added to the damage roll of all Special Damage a Trainer or Pokémon deals. Special Defense is used to avoid and resist Special attacks. Whenever a Trainer or Pokémon takes Special damage, they subtract their Special Defense stat from the damage first before subtracting damage from their Hit Points. Additionally, for every 5 points a Pokémon or Trainer has in Special Defense, they gain +1 Special Evasion, up to a maximum of +6 at 30 Special Defense. Speed is a measure of how quick a Trainer or Pokémon is and determines turn order in combat. Additionally for every 5 points a Pokémon or Trainer has in Speed, they gain +1 Speed Evasion, up to a maximum of +6 at 30 Speed. Starting Trainers begin with 10 HP and 5 points each in the rest of their Combat Stats. You may distribute 10 additional points among your Combat Stats, but no more than 5 points into any single stat. Example: Lisa decides her Trainer is quick in battle and assigns her Combat Stats as so: 13 HP, 7 Attack, 5 Defense, 5 Special Attack, 5 Special Defense, 10 Speed. With the two [+HP] tags from before, her final HP is 15. Tip: HP is very important, both for Pokémon and for Trainers! Even if you’re making a “glass cannon” build, you can’t neglect HP too much or you’ll be sorry! Seriously. You’ll be miserable if you do.  Character Creation 16 Step 6: Find Derived Stats Your Skills, Combat Stats, and more feed into a number of other stats that are used in Combat as well as Capabilities that determine how much your character can lift, how fast they can move, and more. For more details on how Capabilities are used in playing the game, see the section on Capabilities on page 222. Action Points, or AP, are a resource Trainers use to power their Features. Trainers have 5 AP plus 1 more for every 5 Trainer Levels. A Level 10 Trainer has 7 AP, for example. AP refreshes at the start of each Scene. See the Playing the Game chapter for more (page 221). Hit Points determine how much punishment you can take in battle. If a Pokémon or Trainer ever reaches 0 Hit Points, they are unable to take any actions and are unconscious. Hit Points are derived from HP and are calculated differently for Pokémon and for Trainers. See page 198 for Pokémon Hit Points. Trainer Hit Points = Trainer’s Level x 2 + (HP x 3) +10 Evasion helps Trainers and Pokémon avoid attacks. There are three types of Evasion: Physical Evasion, Special Evasion, and Speed Evasion. To calculate these Evasion values, divide the related Combat Stat by 5 and round down. You may never have more than +6 in a given Evasion from Combat Stats alone. These derived stats and their uses will be described in further detail in the Combat chapter (page 226). Power is measure of raw physical strength and ability to lift heavy objects. A Trainer’s Power starts at 4 but is changed by several factors. »» If your Athletics Skills is at Novice Rank or higher, increase Power by +1. »» If your Combat Skill is at Adept Rank or higher, increase Power by +1 High Jump determines how high a Trainer or Pokémon can jump in meters. A Trainer’s High Jump starts at 0, but is raised by several factors. »» If your Acrobatics is Adept, raise High Jump by +1. »» If your Acrobatics is Master, raise High Jump by an additional +1. »» If you have a running start when jumping, raise High Jump by +1. Note that a High Jump of 0 doesn’t mean you can’t jump; it just means you have to make a Skill Check to deter- mine how high you can jump and whether you breach 1 meter. Long Jump is how much horizontal distance a Trainer or Pokémon can jump in meters. This value for Trainers is equal to half of their Acrobatics Rank. Overland Movement Speed is how quickly a Trainer or Pokémon can move over flat land. For Trainers, this value is equal to three plus half the sum of their Athletics and Acrobatics Ranks. By default, this value is 5. Overland = 3 + [(Athl + Acro)/2] Swimming Speed for a Trainer is equal to half of their Overland Speed. Features and other bonuses that grant general boosts to Movement Speed only grant it to Movement Speeds which you already have; giving a Trainer a +4 bonus to all of their Movement Speeds does not suddenly grant them flight. However, Features and Abilities that grant specific movement boosts do. A Feature that grants +4 Levitate Speed causes that trainer to have a Levitate Speed of 4, if they did not already have a Levitate Speed. Throwing Range is how far a Trainer can throw Poké Balls and other items. It’s equal to 4 plus Athletics Rank. Size is how big you are. Trainers are Medium by default. Your Trainer’s weight matters too. A Trainer between 55 and 110 pounds is Weight Class 3. Between 111 and 220 is WC 4. Higher than that is WC 5. Example: As a level 1 Trainer, Lisa’s character has 57 Hit Points 1 Physical Evasion, 1 Special Evasion, and 2 Speed Evasion. Her Capabilities are Power 5, High Jump 0, Long Jump 1, Overland 6, Swim 3, and Throwing Range 8. She is Medium Size and weighs 120 pounds and therefore is Weight Class 4.  Character Creation 17 Step 7: Basic Descriptions Your character is now mostly complete as far as the game mechanics go, but that’s only the start. Now’s the time when you should take care to flesh out your character’s appearance, their personality, and anything else that isn’t covered by the game mechanics but is important to defining a person. Choose a name! You’ll be using it for the rest of the campaign, so be sure you’re happy with whatever you choose. At this point, you may want to talk to your GM and the other players about developing a more detailed history for your character. This is optional and doesn’t need to happen in every campaign. It’s perfectly okay to gloss over childhoods and focus on the adventure to come, but in some campaign types, it’s important to estab- lish where a character comes from, such as a detective’s brush with death at the hands of some thugs as a child or a Team Rocket member’s difficult childhood growing up in the slums with a single parent. It can be fun to talk to the other players and develop a sort of loose interconnectedness or shared history between your Trainers. Maybe you all went to the same Pokémon Trainers’ school or were even in the same homeroom. Some GMs may require that you establish these connections between characters before the game starts, while others will want you to develop your relationships organically through playing the game. Example: Lisa chooses the name Sylvana for her Trainer and then talks to Kate and Brian, the other players in her game, to discuss their characters’ histories. Kate is playing Maya, a level-headed Martial Artist, who they decide has been best friends with Sylvana since they were kids. Brian is playing Viktor, a Mentor whose family just moved to town and was welcomed warmly by both Sylvana and Maya’s families. The three of them and the GM decide that establishing this level of loose connection is enough, and they don’t need to go into too much further detail. He does ask for a little more detail on each of their families and about their classmates though and files that information away for later to use for making rival NPCs and character-driven plotlines for the game. Step 8: Choose Pokémon Even if you begin the campaign with Trainers receiving their first Pokémon, it’s a good practice to have the players pick those Pokémon before the game starts to allow them to stat up the Pokémon and learn how they work. See the chapter on Pokémon (page 196) for how to stat and manage your Pokémon. While it’s up to the GM to decide how many Pokémon and what kinds of Pokémon the players start with, it’s recommended for level 1 Trainers to begin with a single level 5 or level 10 Pokémon, chosen from either the Starter Pokémon in the video games or any relatively common species of Pokémon with three evolutionary stages. The chapter on Running the Game (page 437) provides more tips on choosing starting Pokémon. Example: While the GM in Lisa’s game is having all the characters receive their first Pokémon at the start of the game, he’s decided not to restrict them to the canonical starters. Despite this, Lisa chooses Cyndaquil for Sylvana’s first Pokémon. Kate chooses a Machop for Maya, and Brian has Viktor begin with a Swinub. Step 9: Money and Items Pokémon Trainers need to do a lot of packing for their journeys, from basic supplies like Potions and Poké Balls to more specialized equipment like Fishing Rods and Poffin Mixers. While it is ultimately up to your GM how much money Trainers start with in their campaigns and what items are available for purchase, we recommend all starting Trainers begin with a Pokédex and $5000 to split between spending on supplies and keeping as cash. Example: Lisa’s GM gives each player $5000 to buy items for their character, in addition to the standard Pokédex. Lisa decides to spend $1500 on buying 6 Basic Balls, $600 on 3 Potions, and $200 each on an Antidote and a Paralyze Heal. She then realizes she needs a Poké Ball Tool Kit to use her Apricorn Balls Edge, which she buys for $500. This leaves her with $2000 cash on hand. And that’s it! Enjoy playing Pokémon Tabletop United!  Character Creation 18 Step 1: Create Character Concept. Ask your GM what kind of campaign they are running and if they have any expectations about the sorts of characters that will be played. Come up with a short phrase describing your character concept. Step 2: Create Skill Background. Rank three different Skills down to Pathetic Rank. Rank up one Skill to Adept Rank and one other Skill to Novice Rank. Give a short name to your background. Step 3: Choose Edges. You gain four Edges to distribute. Remember, even though you have one Adept Skill after creating your Background, you cannot use Edges to raise other Skills up to Adept until you are at least Level 2. You also may not use Edges to Rank Up any of the Skills you lowered to Pathetic Rank. Step 4: Choose Features. You gain four Features to distribute and additionally pick one Training Feature for free. You do not need to meet prerequisites for the Training Feature you chose. You may do Steps 3 and 4 in any order, alternating between them to qualify for Edges and Features. Step 5: Assign Combat Stats. Level 1 Trainers begin with 10 HP and 5 in each of their other Stats. You then assign 10 points as you wish among the Stats, putting no more than 5 points in any single Stat. Don’t forget that some Features have Stat Tags to apply! Step 6: Find Derived Stats. Character Creation Quick-Start Steps Trainers begin with 5 Action Points and gain 1 more AP for every 5 Trainer Levels they have. Trainers have Hit Points equal to (Trainer Level x2) + (HP x3) + 10. Power starts at 4. If Athletics is at least Novice, raise Power by +1. If Combat is at least Adept, raise Power by +1. High Jump starts at 0. If Acrobatics is at least Adept, raise High Jump by+1. If Acrobatics is Master, raise High Jump by an additional +1. Long Jump is equal to Acrobtics/2. Overland is equal to 3 + [(Athl + Acro)/2]. Swim is equal to Overland/2. Throwing Range is 4 + Athletics Rank. Size is Medium. Weight Class is 3 if you are between 55 and 110 pounds, 4 if you are between 111 and 220 pounds, and 5 if higher than that. Step 7: Create Basic Descriptions. Come up with what your character looks like and a background for them. The GM will tell you how much detail you need to put into this step. Be sure to have fun working and discussing with the other players as you take this step! Step 8: Choose your Starter Pokémon. The GM will tell you their guidelines for choosing a Starter Pokémon. Read on to Chapter 5: Pokémon for details on how to stat and keep track of Pokémon. Step 9: Buy starting items. Most campaigns starting at Level 1 should start Trainers with $5000 to split between starting equipment and reserve cash. It’s recommended that most starting Trainers pick up Poké Balls and restorative items at the very least.  Character Creation 19 After Character Creation, whenever you Level Up, your character may advance in certain ways, depending on the Level. Trainers have a Maximum Level of 50. Generally, your character will Level Up upon achieving a Milestone such as gaining a Gym Badge or by collecting 10 Trainer Experience. GMs, see  page 461 for details. »» Every Level you gain a Stat Point. Trainers don’t follow Base Relations, so feel free to spend these freely. »» Every odd Level you gain a Feature. »» Every even Level you gain an Edge.
Wonder Room	For 5 rounds, the area is considered Wondered. While Wondered, each individual Pokémon’s Defense and Special Defense Stats are switched. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Tease
Wood Hammer	None Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Desperation
Work Up	Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Get Ready!
Worry Seed	You choose one of the target’s Abilities. Worry Seed changes that Ability to Insomnia for the remainder of the encounter. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 385 Ground Moves
Wounding Strike	The target loses a Tick of Hit Points. Limitation: None Weapon Suggestions: Axes, Swords, Bows, Spears  Gear and Items 290 Master Weapon Moves
Wrap	The user gains a +1 Bonus to Accuracy Rolls made to initiate Grapple Maneuvers, and +2 to Skill Checks made to initiate Grapple Maneuvers or gain Dominance. Whenever the user gains Dominance in a Grapple, the target of the Grapple loses a Tick of Hit Points. Contest Type: Tough Contest Effect: Safe Option
Wring Out	For every 10% the target is below their full Hit Points, Wring Out’s Damage Base is reduced by 1. Contest Type: Smart Contest Effect: Seen Nothing Yet
X-Scissor	None Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Exhausting Act  Indices and Reference 350 Dark Moves
Yawn	The target falls Asleep at the end of their next turn. Yawn cannot miss. Contest Type: Cute Contest Effect: Excitement  Indices and Reference 414 Poison Moves
Zap Cannon	Zap Cannon Paralyzes the target. Zap Cannon ignores the target’s Evasion if there are no other combatants or Rough or Blocking Terrain within 2 meters of the target. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Incentives  Indices and Reference 360 Fairy Moves
Zen Headbutt	Zen Headbutt Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Beauty Contest Effect: Desperation  Indices and Reference 426 Rock Moves
Zing Zap	Zing Zap Flinches the target on 15+. Contest Type: Cool Contest Effect: Tease     Fairy Moves:
