
Credits
PTU System Lead
Paradox (aka Doxy)
PTU Design Team
castfromhp, zoofman
Data Manager
KujiUn
Contributors and Consultants
 Counterbeard, DamienLunas, KainInformation Sourced From
Bulbapedia, PokémonDB
Legalese
Pokémon® is a trademark of Nintendo and does 
not sponsor, authorize or endorse Pokémon: Tabletop United. Pokémon: Tabletop United is a free use fan distribution by fans, for fans of both tabletop RPGs and Pokémon®.
Thanks to Our Community 
Thanks to everyone that has helped us in a million small ways along the way, and given us support and encouragement. And thanks to everyone else involved in creating and designing Pokémon Tabletop Adventures, without which this endeavor would have never started.
Contact Us!
Zetaboards Pokémon Tabletop forum - http://forums.Pokémontabletop.com/index/
Doxy’s personal email: i.climb.clouds@gmail.com
/tg/ - Traditional Games 
#PokémonTabletop on the Rizon IRC network at irc.rizon.netArtwork
We’ve used artwork from all over the Internet in PTU. If you see your art here and wish to have 
it removed, contact us at the forums below. 
Artists: Yuza, HK (nt), Stone, 884, ditb, nanananona, sinsimo, jitsu hidari, satobitorotoku, k-mica, Tomioka Jirou, tsutsuka, Eric Muentes, atom, Lupicam, Ringo78, ueshita, aina617, fraosiboi, dendeko, meitei, @@@, shooting428star, o_mi_n, makkim9, mokaapolka, usao 313131, Yuuichi, Shura Skill, Dadada, Nokuran, paperbeatsscissors, Agemono, PurpleKecleon, CactusCheese, utchy2525, roni, 21grams, yapo (mess),mangoshake, koiwai, Nochita Shin, Merlusa, Mikami, North Abyssor, Kane, Zesilo, Juupion, Souji, haru, Sabaku Chitai, pokemoa, Toriko, Cyneko, Kaibashira, Kokemomo Sayakusa, Y ohi, krt736, i_gysu, Tetsuko, Kakage,  Sa-Dui, Konbu Umauma, srtm, Y akkun, Emunise, Koneri, Yilx, Lechuza, Kashiri Kurosuke, Shuri, Geo-lite, komasawa, tomo, kl, tachiuo, homa-Nix, hiyo, turizao, yamakaji, betuni, mimizurain, Cartoons!, sin, pun2, akira hou, hunger, jmatsu1, Ucchii, namie-kun, washimi, ako6vR, nuriko-kun, strawberrybit, yohi, aoiro no kaze, syui, yoshi (danball), kutta, kaniooyake, yuuichi
Credits
Table of ContentsAuthor’s ForewordChapter 1: Gods and Legends
Arceus and the Origins of Legendaries ............... 6
What makes a God? ........................................... 7
Domains & Avatars ............................................ 7
The Gods  ................................................................. 9
The Lower Pantheon .............................................. 9
The Legendary Birds .......................................... 9
The Legendary Beasts ........................................ 10
Celebi  ................................................................... 10
The Golems ......................................................... 11
Jirachi .................................................................. 12
The Eon Duo ...................................................... 12
The Lake Guardians  ........................................... 13
The Sea Guardians ............................................. 13
Shaymin .............................................................. 14
The Swords of Justice ......................................... 14
The Kami Trio .................................................... 15
Meloetta .............................................................. 15
Diancie ................................................................ 16
The Upper Pantheon .............................................. 17
Mew  ..................................................................... 17
The Tower Duo ................................................... 17
The Weather Trio ............................................... 18
The Creation Trio .............................................. 18
The Lunar Duo ................................................... 20
Heatran ................................................................ 21
Regigigas ............................................................. 21
Victini .................................................................. 22
The Tao Trio ....................................................... 22
The Mortality Duo ............................................. 23
Zygarde ................................................................ 25
The Outsiders .......................................................... 26
Mewtwo ............................................................... 26
Deoxys ................................................................. 27
Genesect .............................................................. 27
Missingno ........................................................... 28
The Outer Gods ................................................. 29
The Unown Hivemind ...................................... 30
Chapter 2: Unwinding The Secrets
Hunting Legends .................................................... 31
Plan ahead ........................................................... 31
The Hook  ............................................................ 32
The Hunt ............................................................. 33
The Showdown  ................................................... 33
Building Churches ................................................. 34
Establish a Theme .............................................. 34
Build the Constellations .................................... 34
Polish the Effigies ............................................... 35
Legendary Auras .................................................... 36
The Rise and Fall of Gods ..................................... 41
Chapter 3: The Blessed and damnedTouched  ................................................................... 44
Signer ....................................................................... 46
Messiah .................................................................... 47
Branded ................................................................... 49
The Brands  .......................................................... 50
The Fate of the Branded .................................... 50
Usurper .................................................................... 51
General Legendary Gifts ....................................... 53
Legendary Blessings ............................................... 55
Patron Stat Tags ...................................................... 57
Legendary Gifts ...................................................... 58
Lower Pantheon Gifts ........................................ 58
Upper Pantheon Gifts ....................................... 62
The Outsider Gifts ............................................. 69Table of Contents
Author’s Foreword–4–
Pokémon Tabletop United: The Blessed and the Damned is an advanced players guidebook for the PTU system 
focusing on how Legendaries interact with the players and the setting, and advanced character advancement op-tions detailed around interacting with these creatures.  This book doesn’t detail everything you need to play, as it’s just an expansion on the core rules.  Also note the ‘Version Notes’ section for a list of changes through its editions.
I by no stretch of the imagination believe these rules or assumptions are something we assume every campaign 
should work around.  In fact, the reason this book exists is A) we wanted to separate the ideology of Legendary classes entirely from the core rules and B) it allows us to talk more about Legendaries as Gods and their interac-tions with the setting.  A lot of these ideas, however, were very common place in the developer community and I have drawn a lot from that.  Think of this book as a toolbox, you don’t have to use all of it but you can pick and choose things from here and tweek them as you wish to fit your game.  
What you can expect from this is a better idea on how to tie Legendaries into your setting if you want to take a 
more divine approach like the later games imply rather than how they were in the earlier games.  I think a lot of the ideas here will help facilitate your creation of your own pantheons, their followers, enemies, rivals, etc.  As for the PC Options what you can expect is a lot of really neat stuff that supplements what was lost with classes like Signer, Crypto, Touched, and Godspeaker not existing in PTU’s core book.  Y ou’ll find them here, and more options as well for archetypes that have come up during campaigns but had no class to fit them.
Chapter 1: Gods and Legends starts this off with the big goat in the sky himself: Arceus.  It discusses explanations 
for what makes a Legendary Pokémon  different from a normal Pokémon.  After this, we head right into the Lower 
and Upper Pantheons of Legendaries, giving you some example blurbs of flavor for each of the Legendaries and 
what their Domains and such are.  This also includes the section for The Outsiders - things that are Legendary Pokémon, but are sort of odd and don’t fit with the rest exactly.  At the end are two completely custom ideas for Legendaries, the Unown Hivemind, and The Outer Gods.Author’s Foreword
Author’s Foreword–5–
Chapter 2: Unwinding The Secrets  discusses topics more suited for a GM.  This includes how to incorperate 
these Legendard beings into your world, and how to handle confrontation or seeking to capture one.  This in-cludes an index of the Auras, and how to handle a Legendary Pokémon being killed.
Chapter 3: The Blessed and Damned moves into Trainer Advancement options.  Take note that none of the 
options here have the [CLASS] Tag.  This is intentional!  Y ou can’t really plan to take these things at character generation, as they normally present themselves fairly late into a game and often by surprise, so you could very easily already have four Classes by the time they became available.  Think of these as branches of general fea-tures.  Included here are Signers, The Branded, Messiahs, and Usurpers. 
Chapter 4: Legendary Gifts goes hand-in-hand with Chapter 3.  It is an index of all the Legendary Gifts that the 
character advancement options in Chapter 3 can access.  
So now that you have an overview of the contents of this book, let’s move onto talking about Legendaries!
Meet Mr. Jenks
Just like the other Pokémon: Tabletop United books, there will be notes on rules 
clarifications or suggestions for GMs and players. Look for the gray boxes and 
Mr. Jenks for those notes!
Hey there, Kid.  Name’s Mr. Jenks.  I’ve gone by a lot of titles and and dabbled in 
quite the number of professions of my time, from mercinary to missionary work, 
and everything in between.  Nowadays, people call me an expert on Legendary Pokémon, and those they shine their blessings on and those they curse.  Folks come 
from far and wide to hear my spiels on em’, but truth be told I’ d rather just sit back 
and watch Mighty Moe Meguca Rangers.  So, I’m a bit of a vagabond.  Seems you found my camp, huh?  Guess I could tell ya a thing or two, but I only accept payment 
in plastic moe.

Gods And Legends–6–
Arceus and the Origins of Legendaries
“What, you wanna hear about how it all began, kiddo?  Well, sit down there yonder and let’s start ourselves a tale 
then.  I don’t suppose you find many folks who deny Arceus played some sorta role in it all; question be just what he did, let alone who the heck he is.  Personally I side with the belief some other big shot in the sky made him.  Makes sense when ya think about our relation to the critters. ”
While the facts are unclear, what is well established by scholars and other Legendary  Pokémon alike is that Ar -
ceus played a large part in the shaping of the world as it is.  Most of the higher Legendaries will even willingly 
admit their submission to the being, as well as owing their own existence to it.  Beyond that, few mortals have ever been graced with the chance to encounter the elusive deity, and his personal pantheon are barred from revealing what little they know of him.  Due to the uncertainties surrounding Arceus, various religious practices around it have popped up over the eras, but there are very little confirmed bits of information about it. 
• Arceus has the power to create life, and created many of the higher Legendaries.  Beyond that is unknown just 
what all he himself created.
• He plays a very minimal role in the affairs of mortals, delegating that to his pantheon, unless matters elevate to the direst levels.• Certain heroes in history have allied with the creature and commanded it in conflict 
Chapter 1: Gods and Legends
I imagine you’re wonderin’ how that last bit works - how’s the world even function, existince not become completely derailed, and the universe victim to untold anomolies because someone shoved Arceus in a ball?  We’ll get to that in Chapter 2: Electric Bungaloo.  
Gods and legends–7–
What makes a God?
“Honestly though I think that’s the borin’ part.  Ain’t no 
one know enough about the big stag in the sky to really say much without getting’ all preachy n’ religious on ya.  What I find more interestin’ is to think about just what he represents, n’ what the other Legendaries are as well.  There’s a few thoughts on that but good luck draggin’ em out of most Legendaries.  We mortals know a bit about it now though ever since we found out how to make Mewtwos – but we’ll get to that dem big purple cats in a bit”
Philosophers throughout the ages have discussed just 
what it is that makes a Legendary, well, Legendary.  There are a few outstanding theories on this that all have merit and have been bantered back and forth for as long as there has been civilization.  The most prominent the-ory is that the subconscious of humans and  Pokémon alike influences it; the outstanding belief that, for exam-ple, Mew was the progenitor of most  Pokémon species empowers Mews to act in such a manner.  Another popular theory is that rather than being simply 
a  Pokémon, Legendary beings contain a spark of sorts 
that allows them to exert influence on the world around 
them.  Both these have merit given certain oddities in 
the Legendary spectrum, though it’s uncertain to the 
general population just what breakthrough allowed hu-
manity to create artificial Legendaries in the form of the 
Mewtwo genome.
Domains & Avatars
“Now you probably are wonderin’ just what the point of 
Arceus creatin’ beings that powerful might be.  Ya ever wonder why livin’ things even got Auras, what caused Mystics and Psychics to come about, the Dream World, Reverse World n’ all the worlds in-between?  Quite frankly I don’t either.  What I do know is we live in a world where science can’t explain everything.  And some-times ya gotta wonder, is it the moon that makes ocean currents or whims of a Kyogre somewhere out there?  Or did a Legendary on the moon make it work that way?  Ain’t no easy answers there kiddo. ”

Gods And Legends–8–
All Legendaries have domains they have control over.  
Not all of these are equal, mind you, and their domi-nance can basically be broken down into two categories.  Most Legendaries are bound to a region, with several of their kind throughout the world.  Their domains are more tied to the humans,  Pokémon and other life of those regions and they do have a good amount of con-trol in them, but outside their region they are essentially ‘normal’  Pokémon.  
A second caste of Legendaries work on a larger scale, 
either worldwide or over large geographical regions.  These ones have domains over more abstract concepts, and include species such as Giratina, Palkia and Dial-gia.  Their overall power is much more significant than those of their regional counterparts, but their overall influence on the lives of mortals is less direct.  
It is also worth noting most Legendaries can take on a 
human avatar, and do so often in meeting with mor -
tals.  They find this often makes conversation easier on both parties - and allows them to walk among mortals without being harassed on occasion.  In Arceus’s case, there are no consistencies here, and he has a hand in all domains of life and existence.
Why do this, you wonder?  It’s pretty prevalent in mythologies, if you think about it.  You know how many ladies Zeus seduced while lookin’ like you or me?  Well, maybe not you, but certainly me.  Point is it can make em’ easier to relate to, if they literally got a human side to em’.
There’s a lot of other applications for this sorta hocus pocus.  Think of all those sto-
ries of mortal gettin’ tricked by a demon in disguise.  Snake in the Garden of Eden anyone?  Or somethin’ more benevolent, like bein’ visited by Morgan Freeman - he’s gotta be Arceus, after all.  Okay maybe just a Mew, but he’s somethin’, that’s for sure.
Not to mention, think of all the kawaii outfits and possibilities.  Yeah, like these right 
here.  Make your doki doki warm, don’t they?

Gods and legends–9–
The Gods
Before jumping right into this section, let’s discuss the content of each section.  The Legendareis are broken into 
three sections - The Lower Pantheon, The Higher Pantheon, and The Outsiders.  Lower Pantheon Legendaries operate on a more Regional level, and are much more common occurances in the world as a whole.  They in-clude many of the Regional Trios, and most the less powerful Legendaries.  The Higher Pantheon Legendaries, in contrast, operate on a global scale and include most the more powerful and iconic Legendaries.  The Outsiders include beings that are considered Legendary Pokémon, but don’t have the same origins as the Lower and Higher Pantheon; many of them are not Gods, but those who are act outside of the actions of the others. 
Each section includes an example fluff blurb, Domains and Avatars for a Legendary.  Keep in mind these fluff  
blurbs, while fitting for their respected species, are not the only possibilities.  Based on your setting and what its inspired by, finding a fitting backstory or mythos for your Legendaries can be a very enjoyable way to expand upon how your setting ticks.  It’s also reletively easy to fit these Legendaries to mythologies in history, such as  Ar -
thurian Legend, Greece, Roman, and Norse mythologies, Chinese, Japanese, Indian, Egyptian, Native American and South American folklore, or even Haitan Voodoo!  Thanks to many of the shared themes and motifs amongst both Legendaries and these mythologies, it’s very easy to piece an existing God, such as Zeus, to a Pokémon, such 
as Zekrom. 
The Lower Pantheon
“We’ll talk about the little guys first, they need some attention too. ”
The Legendary Birds“So we know these guys had somethin’ to do with ocean currents, estuaries and the foundation of the waters them-
selves.  They also always get in peckin’ fights with one another n’ Lugia has to break it up.  Buncha bird brains if you ask me. ”
There’s a common trend among lesser the trios – in that they are all subservient to a greater power; for the Legendary Birds, this is to Lugia.   While their sources of power are different, Articuno, Zapdos and Moltres all share a few common domains and responsibilities.  Their affiliation to Lugia tends to lead them to staying close to the ocean themselves, often close to fishing, ag-ricultural and trading cities.  It has won them many fol-lowers over the years.  In some communities, it is even customary to present one’s lover with a feather of one of these birds as a marriage proposal.  On the flip side, the hostility of these birds for one another if their paths cross has also earned them a reputation as well – this aggression sometimes even flows over to their follow-ers, resulting in conflict between cities and townships that normally wouldn’t occur.  To further complicate manners, these creatures are not exclusive – there could be several of each in a region. Domains: Oceans, War, StormsAvatars: They often take on the form of aggressive indi-viduals.  Be it an athlete, a boxer, a mercenary, a hunter, a rank-and-file soldier or military officer, their human forms tend to relate to their very territorial and quick to anger natures.

Gods And Legends–10–
The Legendary Beasts
“Now, these big dogs…cats…owls, whatever they are, are like the birds in a lot of ways.  They answer to Ho-Oh and 
travel the roads and paths, keepin’ sure nothin’ is tamperin’ with the natural order of things.  Big difference is these guys actually get along.  You think Lugia woulda figured that one out by now wouldn’t ya?” 
The roaming beasts are like their aviary counter -
parts in a lot of ways; they represent seasons, are often revered by the areas they roam, and have dominion over the areas they travel, and are nu-merous in number in regions.  The beasts, how-ever, are not at all territorial.  Their interests are to preserve peace and prosperity for the roads and paths they travel.  This leads them to be one of the more common Legendary Species mortals ally themselves with.  Noble houses and royal families will often own one as a sign of status.  Some experts theorize this is due to their forms; their likeliness to canines and felines makes them much more likely to be subservient to humans.
Domains: Loyalty, Peace, Storms
Avatars: There is a bit of a split here.  Those who travel the region freely tend to favor forms of 
wayfarers, travelers, tradesmen, rangers on duty, and outdoorsmen.  Those who find themselves allied to a noble house or royalty take on the form of a servant, maid, a councilmen, someone very close to the inner workings of those they serve.  Those with someone of a lower status tend to find a medium between the two.
Celebi
“What? The time travelers? Well you’re most likely to see one in a forest shrine out somewhere but don’t bet on it.  They 
got other responsibilities too.  Bouncin’ around all over the eons to make sure things are all hunky-dory.  Some think they got a time police gig going on.  Wouldn’t surprise me in the least. ”
Celebi are an odd bunch.  Their primary purpose in the grand scheme of things was to ensure the forests of the land were not corrupted or destroyed by outside influence.  And for several centuries this was the case, as such it was the primary way they were revered by early humans.  It wasn’t until people started really understanding how to exploit the powers that hold the world in balance to their own gain that their ability to jump through time became highly utilized.  Now they travel the ages to help prevent catastrophes.  As such, you see one outside a forest, it probably needs your help.  Y ou see two outside a forest, something really bad is going down.  Y ou see a lot, well, it’s probably too late for you to run.  Some of them serve other Legendaries, but it’s not a very hard coded system.  Celebi are, outside their own agenda as a species, largely independent.Domains: Nature, Law, TimeAvatars: In a forest they might take on the form of a Ranger, or a shrine caretaker.  Out-side that you’ll usually see them taking on the form of crime investigators, police officers, lawyers, and judges.  But it’s not very often they take on their avatar forms since when they do show themselves to people they got a point they want to get across as fast as possible.

Gods and legends–11–
The Golems
“I’m not gonna go too into detail right away on them cause it steps on their maker’s toes.  Basically their master got a 
bit cranky in age and a joint effort of humans,  Pokémon, and some other Legendaries sealed them away hopin’ a little time out would teach em’ some manners.  I ain’t to say if it worked, but they are free to walk the world again.  Maybe it did though, I think they get captured more than the beasts and birds do. ”
Due to the infractions of Regigigas centuries ago, his children were sealed away with him around the world.  Over time this has changed, and they are once again free, but found themselves often without a purpose.  They stay close to where they were confined, unless captured, where they become extremely loyal servants.  What hasn’t changed with time is their power.  A Gigas in the wrong hands can be a frightful thing, but in others a great boon.  They can create, and destroy.  That purpose is up to their current master.  These Legendaries have no Avatars, as they were created not to possess such a thing by their bitter master.
Domains: Creation, Loyalty, Matter
Word has it there’s more Regi’s than just Steel, Rock, and Ice.  Hell I’ve heard there’s 
ones for every Type, Fairy included.  Heard that one is pretty kawaii, big frilly dress and all.  Granted, not every Region has em’.  Some Regions fit better for it than others, after all.  But hey, hypothetically, if you ever ran a game of Dungeons and Druddigons, having custom Regis in your game could be mighty spiffy.  
Gods And Legends–12–
Legend foretells that encountering a Jirachi isn’t 
the hard part, it’s getting them to wake up that is.  They will wake from their slumber, travel a bit as they please, and then enter a deep, restless slumber.  While stories say they sleep for a 1,000 years before waking up, this is far from the truth.  It’s more they will sleep indefinitely until something draws their attention – and often enough this has historically been the sound of music.  Much like Meloettas, Ji-rachis love art and all forms of expression.  Though this is not the only thing that can stir them; many expressions of power, intelligence and cunning can also work.  But ultimately it’s up to whatever the Jira-chi actually is interested in.  The only oddity to this cycle is if one allies itself to a human.  Then, they make a bit more effort to stay on a normal sleep sched-ule.
Domains: Creativity, Dreams, LuckAvatars: Jirachis are too lazy to bother with human 
forms, though they might take on a shape that won’t draw too much attention while they slumber.  Often enough though, this is just a rock or some other mun-dane object.Jirachi
“The wishmasters. The wish makers. The genies in a pokeball.  Who comes up with this crap?  Basically, this three 
eyed critter is like Rumpelstiltskin and Aladdin’s genie combined.  Wakes up, grants a wish, goes back to sleep.  I think Arceus had a brain fart on these guys, to be honest… ”
The Eon Duo
“ Ah, the lovers.  Cute together ain’t they?  Most the facts bout them got clouded in myths long ago.  Some think them 
cupids, seekin’ out couples who never woulda met otherwise.  Others think they seek out already established items to bless them.  I wouldn’t of minded either in my own life ya know?”
Long recognized as symbols of true love given form, most over -
look their more significant role in the grand scheme of things.  The Eon Duo will from time to time entrust a mortal couple with an essence known as Soul Dew.  It’s actual composition is clouded to researchers given how sparingly it has been gifted, but what is known is it as very potent source of energy.  Often used in history as a defensive deterrent from conflict among mortals, those blessed by two of this species are entrusted to use it wisely.
Domains: Love, Heroism, Fate
Avatars: The Eon Duo always take on the persona of a couple when they don a human form.  The specifics of that are up to them.

Gods and legends–13–
The Lake Guardians
“I don’t wanna mislead ya. Only reason these guys are in the Lower Pantheon is there’s, well, a lot of em out there in 
the world.  The terms ‘Pixie, Sprite and Elf’ came from these guys ya know?  Arceus himself made them as a failsafe in case his higher Pantheon got outa order or tried to rebel.  And you bet your ass on occasion they’ve answered to that.  You might meet one in your travels, but careful if you do.  Cause they ain’t always the kindest to mortals.  Ever heard of Medusa? Yeah, uh, bout that…never piss off an Azelf alright? Promise me that. ”
Knowledge, Emotion, Willpower.  These very concepts were born from these creatures, as they are the very em-bodiment of them.  Able to leave their bodies as spir -
its as they desire, these guardians largely hide away in their dwellings throughout the world – knowing in the event something catastrophic begins they will be need-ed to assist.  Many a criminal organization has seen to containing them or slaying them in order to enact their plots, most in failure, for as these beings can give their blessings, they can take away as well.  Those who stare into the eyes of Uxie lose all past memory; any who touch Mesprit will lose all emotion; Azelf can not only possess humans and  Pokémon alike, but also drain a human of all willpower, leaving them immobile for all eternity.  They are not without empathy for mortals, but they know well what their duty is and will not let it be easily stripped away.  Their champions are not to be un-derestimated.Domains: Law, Loyalty, (Knowledge / Emotion / Will-power)Avatars:  These beings do not typically take on the form of a human if they do take on their avatars, but rather a creature of human myths in attempt to dissuade inter -
lopers and usurpers.  Monsters, nightmarish, and other fantasmic creatures.  It is long believed that the Medu-sa and Gorgons of Greek Legend, for example, was an Azelf.
The Sea Guardians
“Ever hear the Rime of the Ancient Mariner?  No? Well Iron Ledian has a song that covers it pretty well.  It basically’s 
about a sailor who accidently kills a Phione at sea and bad luck follows him.  His crew perishes of drought.  Giratina comes to torment him.  Arceus eventually gives him a second chance to spread his gospel, and he does.  Moral of the story? Phiones ain’t kosher. ”
The Manaphy species has always been one under a lot of doubts of their status as a Legendary or deity.  No sailor would ever question it, though.  From ancient times they and their kin have been known as wayfarers and guard-ians of those who cross their domains.  They are unique in as far as mortals can tell, they can reproduce with any creature of the seas, giving birth to Phiones, who share much the same burden but with less divine power.  To see one on passage of sea is a blessing, to slay one is sure to bring ruination upon yourself.
Domains: Oceans, Luck, Peace
Avatars: Much like the Lake Guardians, the Sea Guard-ians favor the form of merfolk rather than humans if they do take on another form.  

Gods And Legends–14–
Shaymin
“Cute little buggers – but I swear the one time I met one he stole all my pocket change.  It was out in the desert a couple 
of decades ago.  He was makin’ an Oasis.  We talked some about nature n’ such before turnin’ in for the night.  I awoke and he had raided my wallet, but there was a few new cacti bloomin’ nearby… ”
The Shaymin travel the world, finding places where nature has been desolated and returning them to their former states.  Forest fires, drought, and other natural catastrophies are their specialties.  But they are not against showing up at a logging site and causing havoc.  After all, as fairies, mischief is in their nature.  Once their jobs are com-plete, they take wing and find a new place to rejuvenate.  Befriending one is befriending nature itself.
Domains: Nature, Rejuvenation, Trickery
Avatars: Like much of the fairies above, Shaymin prefer to take on the form of something mythical and not exact-ly human if not appearing as themselves.  Typically a dyrad, an elf, or some other mythical creature of the forest.
The Swords of Justice
“Now, these guys are sorta like the Shaymin in that they look after nature, but are a bit more aggressive bout it all.  A 
Shaymin might trick loggers n’ try to spook em’ off, one of the Swords is just gonna go buck wild on them.  They used to attack castles in the middle ages n’ stuff too. ”
The Swords of Justice protect those who cannot them-selves.  They are in every form the knights of the wild.  This does not mean they will refuse to ally with a human, but one whom they ally with must be pure of soul and intent.  They are noble creatures and fight for a greater cause, a better tomorrow.  It is told the Knights of the Round Table all were allied with one of these creatures, or possibly were one themselves in secret…
Domains: Heroism, Loyalty, Law
Avatars: The Knights will only take on one human form if they choose to – one of a knight or equivalent respect and status, always skilled in the martial arts of warfare and weaponry.  Even in their  Pokémon forms, they are swordsmen of mythical status with their horns alone.

Gods and legends–15–
The Kami Trio
“Earth, Wind and Thunder.  These guys are loud, proud and watch us from the heavens.  I’m not exactly sure what 
they do up there to be honest – I imagine it’s not far off from the Swords of Justice, just more about keepin’ things nice n’ clean.  Sorta like Captain Planet I guess. ”
The Kamis are more elusive than many of the low-er Pantheon, and their roles less clear.  What is certain is that they represent the sky above and the nourishment that comes from it.  Those that cross them meet the wrath of the heavens themselves.  
Domains: Rejuvenation, Sky, Storms
Avatars: These beings have no human-like ava-
tars, but have their own alternative forms they may express themselves as in the form of bird, beast and dragon.
Meloetta
“ Ah, poor girls gone lost their way.  People say they taught us humans the arts, dance, song, theater, paintin’, all of it.  
But as the days darkened and our world grew to a more dangerous place, they shied away.  They need a hero, I say. ”
The Meloetta species is believed to be a product of the human unconscious and creativity given form.  They trav-eled the world in happier times, teaching human and  Pokémon alike to express themselves in forms unknown at the time.  The great writers and artists of old are said to be students of these creatures themselves.  But as the centuries moved on, and humans practiced their teachings, they lost their place as instructors of these mysteries.  Humans no longer needed it; art had become an ingrained part of culture itself.  And as the Teams of the last few centuries came to power, and the world wars broke out, they lost themselves in the conflict in-definitely.  Now they show themselves only to savants in situations similar to their own.  They are muses, elusive and overshadowed by the world as it is.  It takes a truly kind and expressive soul to bring one back to their former glory, even if it is a fleeting moment.  Those capable of such a feat are truly blessed.
Domains: Creativity, Love, Peace
Avatars: Meloettas were once not known to take on such forms, but in modern days they hide away in the form of human woman, often addled with issues of addiction and depression.  Artists in their own right but lost in the turbulence of modern life.  They seek those in similar situations, for both comfort and a slight hope of finding their way.

Gods And Legends–16–
Diancie
“Diancie’s are kawaii little things; their origins ain’t as mystical as most the others though.  On rare occassion, a Car -
bink’s born with a mutation that’ll cause it to mature into a Diancie.  These cute little gals act like proper royalty, and 
have a few tricks to back it up. ”
There’s some debate amongst scholars and geneticists if Diancies are proper Legend-aries or just a genetic abnormality in the Carbink species.  While they have most the tells of a Legendary, from Auras to the ability to take on an Avatar, their origins are more akin to those of a Phione than say, a Manaphy.  What is known however is they have a host of rather unique capabilities, the most mundane being their ability to Mega Evolve and absorb light.  Dancies can com-press the carbon in oxygen to make dia-monds at will, as well as create gemstones that radiate with enough energy to power a Region.  These larger stones are called Heart Diamonds, and require a Diancie to control and maintain them.  Those who choose to travel instead of create a Heart Diamond are said to bring good luck to their travel com-panions.  Encountering a Diancie is gener -
ally considered a good omen.
Domains: Creation, Luck, PeaceAvatar: While capable of it, most Diancies don’t feel a need to take on an Avatar.  They already look princess-like enough.  If anything, when they are threatened, they might disguise themselves as a normal Carbink, or an average human female to help blend into a crowd.

Gods and legends–17–
The Upper Pantheon
“ And now for the real movers n’ shakers up above. ”
Mew
“ Ah, the All Mother.  Safe to say any  Pokémon the old goat in the sky didn’t make, and that’s most of em’, Mew had 
a hand in creatin’.  Hear she’s a warm soul to all, humans too.  Hell, wouldn’t mind worshippin’ her if I were into that sorta practice. ”
Mew is, by far, the most empathic, caring, optimistic and loving of the pantheons.  She is a great patron of the arts and will only show her true self to those pure of heart, but considers herself the guardian and moth-er of all.  In fact, the entire worship of the Legendary  Pokémon began with Mew due to her mysterious yet compassionate nature.  Those that meet her are either truly blessed, or troubled souls in need of a savior.  She loathes the brutalities of conflict, but is not without mercy for an ailing soldier.  This extends to the Mewtwo species as well; she sees be-yond the twisted experiments that birthed them and recognizes them as her own children. 
Domains:  Love, Life, Creation
Avatars: Mew can not only take on the form of any other  Pokémon spe-cies, she also often takes on the form of a compassionate woman when dealing with humanity.
The Tower Duo
“Guardians of the seas n’ skies, they call em’.  I don’t get how that works given the lesser Gods they made but hey it’s 
what they say.  One of em’ is strong enough to accidently make hurricanes of biblical proportions n’ the other is said to be able to raise the dead.  Personally I would want nothin’ to do with a fight between these two. ”
While neither is the sole protector of the dominions they claim, or the creator of those dominions, they are well respected with-in the Pantheon for two reasons.  One, despite their significant strength, they hide themselves away to prevent it being misused.  In Lugia’s case, it hides away in the deepest parts of the ocean so that none may be capable of angering it.  In Ho-oh’s, it hides among the cloud so that none may be tempted to demand its gift of resurrection.  The second reason is despite their differences and disagreements, they purposely avoid angering one another for prosperity’s sake.  That said, if one were to win their favors…
Ho-oh’s Domains: Rivalry, Sky, Life 
Lugia’s Domains: Rivalry, Oceans, Storms
Avatars: The two rarely take on human form.  Given where they tend to hide it would simply not make sense.  They are capable of it, however, and would do so as knights, nobles, military officers, or  some other role associated with a guardian.

Gods And Legends–18–
The Weather Trio
“Land, Air and Sea.  These three not only created it, they embody it. Sorta crazy to consider if ya think about it.  Arceus 
made these guys, turned them loose to create the physical world as they saw fit.  Pretty big responsibility. ”
Seen by the  Pokémon in their domains as their rulers, and by many humans as deities that not only deserve respect, but also a bit of fear.  While the very world itself was theirs to mold, so too is the weather and the stability of these domains itself.  The hydrosphere, lithosphere, and atmosphere are also theirs to mold as they see fit.   These Gods were the sort humans and  Pokémon alike made sacrifices to in order to avoid calamity.  The truth of the matter is they are more approachable than most mortals would be led to believe, but also wary, for knowing what their demise could do to the world as a whole.
Domains: Creation, Matter, Primal Weather
Avatars:  The Weather Trio are capable of taking on human form but follow no set pattern to these forms.  To them, it often depends more on what the mortal imagines them appearing as.  They are not the types to be discrete about their appearances.
The Creation Trio
“Oh my…we already reached these guys, huh.  Lemme talk about the first two first…I need to prep myself some for 
the other guy I think.  Time, Space, Death.  These beings are Arceus’s grand champs.  The first two, though, are a bit more…subtle. ”
Space, Time, and Death.  It is these basic components that our universe is made from, and to them Arceus trusted three ves-sels: Palkia, Dialga, and Giratina.  Each of them rules over a realm of their own, separate but connected to our own.  For Palkia, this domain is space, matter, dimensions themselves.  At his whim the number of dimensions in our universe could double.  His realm is a Non-Euclidian maze of tesseracts, which would be a terrifying obstacle for any mortal to try to traverse.  Dialga, on the other hand, controls time.  If the Celebis are a collective unit of time police, than he is the Supreme Court over such matters.  His own realm is much more sensible, but just as confusing to a mortal.  Endless doors to all eras and realms, from which he ensures with an iron fist that wayward time travelers cannot create paradoxical events.
Palkia’s Domains:  Chaos, Creation, Matter
Dialga’s Domains: Creation, Law, Time Avatars:  Palkia’s choice of forms outside his normal form are all together alien.  If he chooses to take one, it would be of a be-ing outside the comprehension of those who live in a Euclidian space.  Dialga is much more straightforward – that of a judge or ruler would suffice.

Gods and legends–19–
“ Alright, you got me kiddo.  I’ll talk about the big man down under alright?  This just…always gets me nervous.  Back 
in my soldierin’ days, I saw him once on the field after a battle.  It was the most horrifying moment of my life, and I wish you never have to cross paths with him. ”
While it is true that Giratina is the embodiment of An-timatter, this is not what he is known for by mortal species.  His realm is a cold, dark place for lost souls and the damned alike.  Throughout the centuries he has been known as a demon, entropy, death given form.  He is by far the most active among these three in the affairs of mortals, as he has dominion over their very mortality.  To meet him is an ill omen, and those he does favor are often used for his own means.  How-ever, his appearance is not always one of deceit; as the lord of the underworld, it is through him that all me-diums must work to converse with the departed, and this duty he handles with respect.  He does not lie, and he works in contracts (though not always strictly worded, trickery is not below him.)  To call him evil would be inaccurate, as death is a natural order of the world, and it is to him the truly vile must answer.  
Giratina’s Domains: Creation, Death, Law
Giratina’s Avatars: No Legendary has as many forms as Giratina.  He is the fiddler on a lone dark road.  The business man with which men bargain their souls, the old man who guides the departed to the afterworld and souls to the realm of the living.  The grim reaper come to retrieve those whose time is up.  He is the fer -
ryman of the River Styx and the snake of temptation.  
Known by many names, Beelzebub, Hades, Lucifer, Papa Legba, Satan, all labels he accepts, but all simply labels placed by mortals. 

Gods And Legends–20–
The Lunar Duo
“The Dream Word is another realm we don’t really know much about.  Our subconscious given form in a world par -
allel to our own, governed by the Queen of Dreams and the Lord of Nightmares. ”
Cresselia and Darkrai were created as two sides of a coin; where one is a bringer of new hopes, the other is a harbin-
ger of nightmares.  Together they create a balance, and for ages have been beacons for farseers and clairsentients to seek out or pray to.  The Dream World is said to be composed of the thoughts of all living beings given form, and from it many visions of past, present and future can take place.  Where one may see this as simply that these two embody extremes of this manifestation, it could also mean they were meant to be sought out by these gifted indi-viduals to try to unveil events transpired or those yet to come.  Likewise, these two may seek out individuals and grant them dreams to convey such scenes.  Many a catastrophe has been avoided due to the warnings of Darkrai, and many a hero has risen due to the encouragement of Cresselia.
Cresselia / Darkrai Domains: Dreams, Fate, (Heroism / Nightmare)
Avatars: As lords of the realm of dreams, they can take on any form they wish within it to suit whatever needs of the message they must convey.  In the material world, Cressellia prefers looks of regality, and Darkrai is fine with just a fancy suit and hat.

Gods and legends–21–
Heatran
“This hot headed fella was literally born at the center o’ the planet.  I’ll be honest, Giratina creeps me the hell out but 
this guy’s way more a demon. ”
Born at the same time that Palkia, Dialga, and Giratina were created by Arceus upon the Spear Pillar, the ambient en-ergies of the act gave birth to another being at the center of the world.  Born of the very heat of the planet, this creature knew only how to devour, destroy, burn, and create more of his kind.  It rampaged across the young world, and the infant Creation Trio struggled to maintain it.  Arceus watched this, and in this moment realized the necessity of a failsafe.  It was from this event the Lake Guardians were created, and along with them a special counter measure for Heatran and his in-
fernal spawn.  He gifted the Lake Guardians the knowledge of 
the Magma Stones, and how to utilize them to control these 
creatures and quell their thirst for destruction.  And hence, 
they were banished back to the depths of the world, where 
they remain undisturbed.  
Domains:  Chaos, Destruction, War
Avatars: It suffices to say the human concepts of demons, bal-
rogs, and similar creatures of infernal flame came from some-
where.
Regigigas
“This old cranky bastard was the one who moved the continents around, n’ taught man how to make tools n’ such.  
Pretty nice guy till we started tamin’  Pokémon and tryin’ to make our own golems.  Then he lost it. ”
Ages ago, when humanity was still young and the gifts of mysticism and pscionics started to formulate in humanity, a catastrophe occurred.  These young civilizations learned of the empathy between them and the wilds, and began to tame  Pokémon, as well as developing containment devices for them.  They then began to try to emulate the acts of their deities, and in this case, create life.  Regigigas was appalled by the actions of his followers.  How dare they try to emulate his own divinity and usurp what was given to him by Arceus!  He attempted to exterminate his own congregation, and ultimately failed to a joint effort of humanity,  Pokémon and other gods.  Him and his creations were sealed away for centuries to help calm their nerves, and while it worked with his lesser creations, he himself is still quite livid.  Even now he dwells in his prison, shifting the earth to create disasters and storms as retribution on all that have betrayed him, and forming an army within his prison cell.  Much like Heatran, his release would bring about 
much devastation, as he can command any of his spawn, captured or not.
Domains: Creation, Life, Matter

Gods And Legends–22–
Victini
“I’m not really sure what all to say here about this one.  He’s like The Lord of Winning.  Just don’t let him tell you about 
his story that starts in the 12th century… ”
 Victini was a very unique case in Arceus’s grand scheme.  He wit-
nessed the downfall of Regigigas at the hands of mortals, and realized there would come times when these individuals would need champi-ons of their own.  He did not need to leave every responsibil-ity to the Lake Guardians, these beings showed an amazing potential for great acts of heroism on their own.  And so, he created Victini; an embodiment of heroism, victory and valor.  Victini was given one single task; seek out potential heroes in lands in need of one.  Teach them, aid them, and lead them to their destiny.  And that he has through the ages; he 
is not only a guardian spirit for those of great fate, but a living 
weapon against his own kind.
Domains: Fate, Heroism, War
Avatars: Victini is an odd ball in that when he does take on an avatar, he does so in 
the form of a weapon, armament, or trinket that would be a trademark of a hero.  He is the sword in the stone, the 
crown of a rightful heir to the throne, the rifle of a rebel leader.  He is with his chosen destined every moment of 
their journey, and at their side in every hardship they might face.
The Tao Trio
“I’m sure you heard the tale.  How the two brothers and their single dragon had such a feud the creature split into three.  
I won’t go into details there, let’s talk about what they do nowadays. ”
Originally born on a whim of Arceus while observing an argument between two brothers over their differing ideas, Reshiram and Zekrom each embodied a concept – truth and ideals.  Over time these concepts have come to force again and again, each to disastrous results.  Most scholars believe their own personal feud will never be quelled, as they repre-sent a complete polar opposite of concepts rather than just truth and ideals.  Yin and Y ang, Positive and Negative, Hot and Cold, Good and Evil.  These two seek out conflict, in-dividuals who oppose each other in such a matter, and ally themselves accordingly.  Some believe Arceus’s intention was witnessing the destruction of their eternal conflict would cause both sides to coincide, and cease the hostility.  The truth of that is yet to be confirmed, but if mortals settle their own affairs, the two will part ways until they are drawn to-gether yet again.
Reshiram / Zekrom Domains: Equilibrium, Heroism, RivalryAvatars: Much like many of the others in the Higher Pantheon, if they choose to take on a human form, it is dy-namic and appropriate to their situation.  They do, however, always take on a form that would convey their loyalty to their current master.

Gods and legends–23–
The Mortality Duo
“Life and death, one of the oldest dualities known to existence.  While there’s a lot of Gods that embody these extremes, 
there are two of them in particular that always get skimmed over in the sagas and the legends.  Hell even took me a while to get around to tellin’ you about them, didn’t it?”
Gods are fickle creatures with priorities and ten-dencies that seem alien to mortals, but when it comes to Xerneas and Yveltal, their motivations are quite clear.  They are not the only Gods with strong ties to Life and Death, but none thrive off  these two domains in the same manner as these beings.  When the actions of mortals and deities tip the balance between the scales of good and evil, light and dark, and of course, life and death, these two appear as both harbingers and aggrega-tors.  They seldom are the only deities to appear in such situations, as their arrival often means con-flict will follow.  They thrive off the exploitation of Few scholars do know that, in reality, when the twin dragons were born, a third was left remains as a husk of their former whole; this being is known as Kyurem.  This deity wishes for nothing more than to unify once again with its severed halves and cease their endless conflict.  The practicality of this is questionable, as even to this day Kyurem has yet to find a means to draw these two together, or an individual of the mortal world with the means to do so.  In the recent era, Kyruem has grown tired of this war it cannot quell, and has become a hermit of sorts.  It hides away in the coldest parts of the world, watching and mulling over its past failures, but hopes that one day a hero will call upon it has long passed.
Domains: Fate, Peace, Solitude
Avatars: Kyurem sits atop an icy throne in any form that strikes its fancy.  In its state of destitute it has lost its flair for appearances.

Gods And Legends–24–
their  domains, locking the two entities in an endless tug-of-war that, ideally, always ends in equilibrium.  If men 
were to come close to unlocking the secret to immortality, or truly bring the dead back to life, Xerneas would ap-pear to help their cause, and Yveltal to thwart it.  Likewise, genocide and acts that threaten to cause entire species to go extinct would beckon Yveltal’s blessings, and Xerneas’s scorn.  Organizations and individuals often take up banner behind these beings when these moments arise, which leads to rivalry, conflict, war, and the attention of deities and champions far and wide.  Ultimately, when the dust settles, these two will return to dormancy – but the times and places that they do appear mark pivotal moments in history.
Xerneas / Yveltal Domains: (Life / Death), Rivalry, War
Avatars: While surely capable of it, these two do not normally take on avatars in the usual manner.  When not ap-pearing in their true forms, they often appear in more cryptic manners – an odd tree growth formation in a forest might take on Xerneas’s form, or a storm cloud in the shape of Yveltal.  Their appearances are much more ominous than that of most Legends.
The Nazis back in World War Two? Yeah their Officers totally had Yveltal on their hats, don’t let people tell ya otherwise.
Gods and legends–25–
Zygarde
“Oh Lord, where did you hear that name?  No, don’t say it again – Christ it might hear you!  Couldn’t you call it by 
one of its other names? I dunno, Kraken, Midgardsormr, Shiva, The Destroyer of Worlds?  Okay maybe it can’t hear us, but don’t say its name three times in front of a mirror on Halloween. ”
When the world was young, before civilization or the time when humans would come to befriend  Pokémon, the lines between Legendary  Pokémon and folklore were much more obscure.  Arceus had not settled on his chosen yet, and many species existed that do not today.  The reason they don’t exist, is thanks to Zygarde.  The being evolved a very, very potent way of surviving in these early times – it could completely disable a Legendary  Pokémon’s Auras.  There is no telling how many species or young Legendaries were devoured by this carnivorous creature, nor how many civilizations fell due to its power.  The fall of Atlantis, Babylon, and countless other ancient utopias are often blamed on this being.  Legend has it that a band of heroes, blessed by numerous Gods laid the creature low and imprisoned it far beneath the earth’s surface.  In time, it faded from the worries of man,  Pokémon and Legendary alike.  This changed when Usurpers appeared – when mortals began to steal the power of the di-vine, Zygarde began to stir.  It hunts these individuals, and other Gods near the end or beginning of a reincarna-tion, in pursuit of an easy meal.  Many wonder if the earliest of Usurpers found inspiration in this monster, as it is a predator whose favorite dish is the divine.  The more interesting question is if it perhaps reached out to these highly ambitious individuals, and goaded them to act – like a farmer preparing livestock for the slaughter.
Domains: Devourer, Predator, Trickery
Avatar: Zygarde has no need for such an appearance.  It cares for nothing but its own gluttony.

Gods And Legends–26–
The Outsiders
“There’s a few outside the grand order of things too.  Arceus didn’t make them, that’s for sure.  Their origins are pretty 
varied.  Some we as humans made, some are completely alien from our world, others…well, I ain’t quite sure to be honest.  Don’t think anyone is. ”
Mewtwo
“People used to be scared about Nuclear Weapon arms races.  Wonder what those guys think about the Mewtwo arms 
race nowadays.  Team Rocket opened up a huge can of wurmples with that one. ”
The Mewtwo genome was both a great historical moment and scientific achievement, but its details are less than noble.  The credit is officially assigned to a Dr. Fuji, who became obsessed with the concept of cloning his deceased daughter.  The then leader of Team Rocket, Giovanni, saw potential in his research, and funded him under the condition he also created a clone of Mew.  While the results of Dr. Fuji’s human clone had an unfortunate end, he exceeded beyond Giovanni’s expectations with Mewtwo.  Once it matured, he was able to make the creature into a living psionic weapon.  In the team’s own facilities, they began to manufacture the creatures, and sell them on the black market.  This eventually became public knowledge when the formula was leaked via the internet, and the world was never the same.  Where nuclear warheads were once a threat, now nations judge their security on how well they are able to manufacture Mewtwos.  The creatures are ruthless on the battlefield and more resilient than an airship cruiser, but have a very compelling catch on how they must be raised or they will grow unstable and uncontrollable.  First noted by Dr. Fuji himself, Mewtwos need to be raised alongside a human child – their symbiant.  This interaction from birth with a human youth instills in them a strong connection with humans they will not develop otherwise.  The reason for this is up for debate with scholars, but many believe part of it is records indicate the original Mewtwo itself was made from a mix of Mew’s DNA, and that of Dr. Fuji’s daughter.  While the formula is highly classified, it’s not farfetched to surmise the process is still similar.  These children typically grow up to be the handlers for the creatures, but in the case of their demise…well, even the original had a bit of a tantrum when that happened.
Domains: (Loyalty, Symbiotic) or (Chaos, Destruction), War 

Gods and legends–27–
Deoxys
“ And now for somethin’ truly alien.  No, I mean, like, literally.  Like Staryus n’ Cleffaries n’ and such.  A virus that fell 
to Earth on a meteorite n’ got hit by a laser, so became a God-like being.  Sounds like a monster flick don’t it?”
Creatures of alien origin, they emerge from debris from space that reaches Earth’s sur -
face.  Researchers on the phenomena be-lieve Arceus’s will forces them to take on a form that complies with this one’s rules, and so the virus they originate from takes on the form of a  Pokémon.  This helps ex-plain their ability to adapt many forms, as the virus itself is most likely highly adap-tive.  It does not however quite explain 
why they have Legendary Auras.  Scholars 
can only predict whatever on world they 
did come from, the virus they are com-
posed of is of similar status in the grand scheme of things.  Here, they are outside the pantheon, and tend to keep 
to themselves.  They are not naturally hostile unless provoked, and can be befriended, but are not the most social creatures.  Some scientists believe they were the source of many of the world’s diseases, but there is no conclusive 
proof of this.  Aside from this, it is known they can regenerate any part of their body as long as their core is not 
destroyed, and they seem to have a tendency to create auroras to communicate with one another among their kin.  
Domains: Life, Pathogen, Storms
Genesect
“ And now for somethin’ truly alien.  No, I mean, like, literally.  Like Staryus n’ Cleffaries n’ and such.  A virus that fell 
to Earth on a meteorite n’ got hit by a laser, so became a God-like being.  Sounds like a monster flick don’t it?”
Genesect are much like the Mewtwo genome in that they are a manufactured being of godly potential.  Team Plasma even applied similar methods to their creation, but not so much the caretaking.  Genesects themselves were at one time a dominant predator species, created by Arceus himself as early caretakers of the wild before mankind roamed the world.  However, as mankind came to be, this species was seen as their natural predator, and were slowly wiped from existence.  Team Plasma revived them, and much like many facilities did with armor for Mewtwos, augmented them.  The main difference here is that these technological augments changed its psycho-logical habits and its biological structure.  N shut down the facilities before things could go much farther, but the creatures were already in existence again, continuing their hunt for bigger and stronger prey, now better armed, smarter, and more durable.
Domains: Land, Predator, Trickery
Avatars: Some Genesects were given the functionality to take on the form of an airship capable of spaceflight.  Suffice to say, this is not something one would get to experience without besting and capturing one of the beings.

Gods And Legends–28–
Missingno
“I wish I had more to tell ya on this one, but there ain’t much I can.  It’s a thing that shouldn’t be.  That Lovecraft guy? 
Yeah, got the ideas from probably runnin’ into this thing.  Arceus musta been really drunk or somethin’ when he let this one slip by… ”
Even the most knowledgeable Cryptozoologists know barely a thing about MissingNo, but that hasn’t stopped the rumors and theories that have spread throughout the Pokémon research com-munity. One interpretation casts MissingNo as very much a traditional Elder God, its motiva-tions utterly and completely alien to mortals or even to the other Legendary Pokémon. It exists outside of the Pantheon and may not even ful-ly exist in this reality. It certainly follows none of 
this universe’s laws of physics if it doesn’t want to, 
and even Palkia and Dialga would be left baffled 
at the way it exists and moves through our space-
time. 
Another rumor has it that MissingNo was an an-cient Legendary Pokémon that has become cor -
rupted, or even the Creator before Arceus. It’s the God of an old world or even an old universe 
that is gone now, they say, supplanted by our 
own world and the creations upon it. The more extreme theorists go as far to say that whatever 
MissingNo once was, it created our world before 
Arceus usurped its throne. That, they say, is why 
it’s such an aberration and complete anathema to 
everything that exists - MissingNo may have no purpose beyond reclaiming its domain from Arceus. And when it does, what shall become of all of Arceus’s cre-
ations?
Y et another theory states that MissingNo is in fact the newest addition to the Pantheon, a creature that could only 
be born in a society increasingly reliant on digital connectivity and the wonders of technology. Its domain over 
glitch is quite literal - it has power over the malfunction of electronic equipment, and its manifestations are most powerful where it can force itself into large interconnected networks of computers with large flows of data going 
through them. And as we increasingly become one with our technology, our cell phones and computers becoming 
almost extensions of our own bodies, its power grows as well. It is this theory that causes many cultists to proclaim 
that MissingNo is the most human of all Legendary Pokémon because its power and domain derive directly from 
human activities and human advancement. But who’s to say that it doesn’t exist to devour all that we create instead? Finally, there are those who research MissingNo not as a Pokémon but as a phenomenon. They claim the universe is like a computer simulation in many ways, and MissingNo is a literal glitch in the system, nothing more than a 
force of nature. Where it goes, the laws of physics cease to function normally, and reality can freeze up, just like a 
computer caught in a loop. 
Domains: Chaos, Creation, Glitch
This multitude of interpretations is because MissingNo is one 
a bit of a hot topic for intrigue and mystery in the world of Pokémon,  folks would be remiss to present just one interpre-tation cause it’ d make it too prediable in the tales they weave. If you got a story to say about MissingNo, mix and match these as ya need to make your own folklore out of it. 
Gods and legends–29–
The Outer Gods
“There been legends of man defeatin’ the gods n’ takin’ their power for long as we’ve had stories.  But what if I told you 
this actually happens in nature?  The very spark of Legendary Power, that raw energy, is out there and it’s a constant power struggle for who has it?  Scary ain’t it?  Those Usurpers people fear got their idea from these guys, I’ll tell ya that.  Old as Arceus, ten times as active in world affairs, and a hundredfold more volatile.  That’s the best way I can sum up The Outer Gods. ”
The Outer Gods are a collection of entities that were not typically known was Legendary that through various circumstances have become gods in their own right.  While the origins of the spark that created this separate pantheon is unclear, all fingers point to alien origin.  Each of these beings embodies a concept, and their presence keeps that concept in balance.  If this God were absent, the concept runs rampant and effects reality.  For example, the concept of Rebellion being untamed may cause revolutions to spark up around the world and criminal organi-zations to act in greater frequencies than normal.  A bigger concern is this pantheon is not stable; it is composed of eight  Pokémon at any one time, each possessing two types to a total of 16 types and concepts in representation.  However, if one of these Gods is slain by another  Pokémon, the spark is passed onto the slayer.  This can cause several other of the Outer Gods to be discharged of their own spark, which in time will find a new host.  Due to this, the Outer Gods tend to hide away, acting through their followers, champions and minions rather than enter a 
conflict themselves.  Not because they are weak, in fact each of them is capable of creating their own realm much 
like the Creation Trio, but because the risk is too high not only to themselves but also their brethren for one of 
them to fall.  However, sometimes this is the intent, and many wars have been fought in centuries past to guise a 
shadow war between two of these entities.
Domains: Concepts and Fate (See table below and Legendary Aura Section on the Concept Domain)
Avatars: As with many of the Upper Pantheon, these beings are capable of any form they wish to take on, but tend 
to stay to ones close to their concept.

Gods And Legends–30–
I imagine this section is confusin’.  Here’s an example Pantheon of these Outer 
God figures - their first incarnation.  You can thank that Paradox guy for the existance of these bad boys in the sky.  Their inspiration are the Gods of the Aztec civilization meets Lovecraft, for the record.  Hence the “Outer” part. 
The Everhungry - Whiscash – Water/Ground – Slumber and Destruction
The Deciever – Macargo – Fire/Rock – Love and DecayThe Nameless – Dragonite – Dragon/Flying – Freedom and InconsequenceThe Architect – Spiritomb – Dark/Ghost – Solitude and TruthThe Stormsmith – Abomasnow – Grass/Ice – Knowledge and BloodshedThe Dirge – Venomoth – Bug/Poison - Rebellion and BlissThe Broken Lord – Medicham – Fighting/Psychic –Suffering and TerrorThe Inquisitor – Magnezone – Steel/Electric – Creation and VerveThe Banisher - Wigglytuff - Normal/Fairy - Fact and Fiction
The Unown Hivemind
“Creepy little letter guys, ya know what I’m referrin’ to.  Ever wonder why there’s entire ruins of civiliations around em, 
or why they are so clustered?  I’ll tell ya what I think.  They ain’t just individuals, but one entity split into endless parts.  Makes em even creepier don’t it?”
Little is known about the nature of Unowns, even to Rune Masters.  The taciturn species appears to be extremely sophisticated, but what is it that makes them tick?  Why do they have the shape they do?  This has eluded scholars for ages, but the eeriest of theories is these creature’s true agenda is to eventually control us, and are currently con-spiring together as a single collective consciousness to shape our society as they see fit.  Rune Masters, in a sense, are their chosen enforcers of such an establishment, and those who go against this…well, they tend to disappear.
Domains: Hivemind, Law, Trickery

Unwinding the Secrets–31–
Chapter 2: Unwinding 
The Secrets
Hunting Legends
“What.  I just got done tellin’ you all that horrible shit and you wanna meet one.  Maybe catch one.  Kid you are nuts, but alright, here we go… ”
Legendary  Pokémon are generally elusive beings to en-
counter in the wilds.  Doing so either takes considerable luck, or a great investment of time, research, and dedi-cation.  Let’s go over a few reasons why Trainers might feel the need or desire to meet, capture, ally themselves or defeat one of these beings.  
• The Trainer requires the assistance of such a being for 
a life goal or for a matter of great importance.• The Trainer’s family has a long lineage of worshipping and serving the god in question.  Seeking out such a patron could be viewed as a coming-of-age they are ex-pected to fulfill.• The Trainer is a member of a church, priesthood, shrine or cult that worships the species.• The Trainer’s own actions or interests have come to be shared by a god, or their actions oppose a god’s interest who they must come to conflict with.• The god has wronged the Trainer in some manner that demands retribution.• The Trainer wishes to capture a god as a proof of their competence as a Trainer.• The Trainer wishes to become a god themselves and will go to great extremes to see this happen.• The Trainer is just really lucky or unlucky and was in the right or wrong place at the right or wrong time.
While this is not an exhaustive list of motivations, they 
do all have something in common – the Trainer has a very strong emotional tie to this quest and a great desire to see it through.  So how do we as Game Masters en-sure this feels like a natural process and give this Train-er the development they deserve for this attachment to such a goal?  
Plan ahead
Y ou as the Game Master should have a very good idea how you see your game spanning out in terms of plot, allies, progression on the whole.  If you know it’s going to be a long, long time before your Trainers can feasibly accomplish such a thing, start early with the hints and tidbits.  If this motivation comes up later in the game, don’t feel like you need to draw it out to such great ex-tent – what matters here is the overall experience, not their time investment.  
Unwinding the Secrets–32–
Y ou should also consider the party’s balance.  Even one 
person catching a Legendary can severely throw off the balance of parties if the others aren’t given similar ways to compensate.  Maybe you rule that when captured Legendaries lose access to their Legendary Auras and are just really strong  Pokémon, maybe construct the narrative or plot in a manner that everyone is intended to capture one, or possibly utilize some of the character advancement options later in to offset this.  
The Hook
If a Trainer has such an encounter written into their background, or their family is known to worship a cer -
tain patron, they did their job for you and it’s easy to work with.  Introducing this as a hook for someone else to develop can be trickier.  Y ou might have a Legendary in mind that matches a player well, but they might not be that fond of it.  So be prepared if you want to go with cranking your game up this way to give them some say so and options on how to go about this.  Also don’t be afraid to type shift a Legendary’s basic Type to match a fluff bit you had in mind better.  One of the neater concepts I saw for this was Meloetta as ghost/psychic or ghost/fighting called The Banshee, and the Legendary Beasts given secondary types and a type shifted Ho-Oh to be The Four Horsemen.
Starting such a hook can be a very exciting moment 
for a PC.  There’s countless ways you can do this, but in my experience one of the most satisfying is a chance encounter early on with a Legendary.  Maybe it taunts the Trainer, or beckons them for help, or even mortally threatens them, but a show of raw power and mystery can be a very compelling hook.  This Legendary doesn’t even have to show its true form, maybe appearing in the guise of a more common  Pokémon, or as a person, or something completely alien to the player’s expectations.  An Azelf showing itself as a Gorgun in a garden of stone statues of terrified soldiers would be an example of the latter.  
Don’t worry kid, you’ll be seein’ me in this section too, but it’s a bit different than the last one.  Here we’re gonna talk about less fluff and more how you weave these fantastic creatures into your stories.  The main goal here should be a more natural introduction than just sending Gensect to eat your players when you feel they are up to snuff to fight the beast.  Let’s make a quest or tale out of this, not a brawl! Bonus points if there’s kawaii magical girls involved.
But now that I got your attention, let’s talk about the Rocket Shotgun Delimma.
It’s a pretty common gripe when it comes to Trainers catchin’ Legendary Pokémon.  When it comes down to it, A Pokémon in a Trainer’s hand is es-sentially a weapon you hone and build upon over time.  Startin’ off with your Charmander is like a buncha sticks you sharpened until you got one that sorta worked as a spear.  Over time you get used to fightin’ with this spear, and even start to work on it and upgrade it with actual metal tips and such.  You grow 
an attraction to it and a phychological bond - the Charmander you raised to a Charizard is not just a weapon anymore, but a buddy.  You got real, emotional attatchment to it.  
Now let’s pretend the Charizard is still a spear for a second, and I hand you a rocket launching shotgun that 
blows everything to bits with a simple pull of the trigger.  You’re suddenly torn what to do cause while this thing will level all who stand before you without effort, it trivializes the spear you worked so hard with up till now.  If those spears represent your normal Pokémon, this gun’s a Legendary if left unchecked.  And that just ain’t sugoi at all, my kawaii little kohai.
Don’t worry though, Old Man Jenks got your back.  We got some suggestions on how to handle this later and 
alleviate the fears of the Rocket Shotgun Delimma.

Unwinding the Secrets–33–
Another example of a more unorthidox hook would be 
to try to constantly trick your players into becoming Branded.  Start this early on and keep it as a reoccuring theme, with the being trying to strike a contrat being a constant precense the players are aware of.  This allows you to craft events based on them trying to avoid these pacts, or if they take one, a quest to try to get out of the contract once they realize what they’ve done.  Y ou can read more about Branded individuals in Chapter 3.
The Hunt
Once the hook is established and you got a Trainer’s at-tention, it’s important to keep in mind this should be a continued effort throughout the narrative and shouldn’t suddenly just appear out of the blue later on.  
To facilitate this, you have a lot of tools you could utilize 
in the form of legends and potential religious practic-es.  Give your players plenty of opportunities to look into the lore behind these creatures via their followers, acclaimed researches, their shrines, sightings through-out the campaign.  Keep it on their minds that there are forces at work on a grander scale, even if it’s not relevant to your overarching plot.  This can give you great ways to flesh out your settings and give a Trainer very intrin-sic value to your campaign.  
Feel free to let them learn about what this god’s auras 
are capable of, what sorts of feats they are, and introduce Trainers who have befriended or captured such beings themselves as role models or nemeses.  They should get a feel for how big a challenge this is going to be, and that they may fail the first couple attempts at it.  If you put them in a situation where they capture and raise cer -
tain species of  Pokémon to meet this goal, you’re doing something right!
The Showdown
The eventual showdown is almost guaranteed to be a very exciting moment for a Trainer, but you can do a few things to spice it up as well.  Perhaps there’s a certain ritual one must perform to get the attention of this god, or they can only encounter them in a particular location at an oddly specific time.  Maybe they need to first an-ger it with an act the god would find atrocious, or their actions against this being have finally boiled over to a point that the Trainer can be ignored no longer.  If this is something a Trainer wishes to see through by them-selves without assistance, try to find ways they can ac-complish that given enough preparation and creativity.  Whatever their goal is, remember you shouldn’t make it feel hopeless to succeed.  
Once a Legendary is captured, there’s a few questions 
and concerns this may evoke based on what it was.  Say, for example, a Trainer did catch Arceus.  What ramifi-cations does this have on the world as a whole?  While that sort of chaos might be your intent, here’s a sugges-tion that aid in easing the implications:  Pokémon who are essentially Gods are capable of splitting off an ava-tar of themselves of lesser power, and when one is cap-tured, this is what a Trainer actually captures.  After all,  Pokémon have been captured by humans for a very long time without the world ending, and if that is the nature of things, then certain safety nets must be in place to circumvent such a situation.  
This avatar is in all rights the god, in essence a shared 
consciousness, but being it is but an avatar does not possess its full potential.  This obviously varies from set-ting to setting and even Legendary to Legendary, maybe they aren’t all powerful or they are numerous enough for it not to be an issue, but in the event they are it helps to think on why such things may be possible.
Keep in mind you don’t actually require a Masterball to catch a Legendary Pokémon.  They just help  - pardon my Kalossian - a metric ass ton.  

Unwinding the Secrets–34–
Building Churches
If you’re wondering on how you could go about estab-
lishing a pantheon and religion in your own Region, look no further!  This can be a daunting task to take on cold turkey, so let’s go over a few steps to ease the burden.
Establish a Theme
Generally, when a GM goes about creating their own Region, they have a source or real location in mind; you might base a Region off of the United Kingdoms, the state of Washington, India, or even all of Africa.  If you’ve done this, take a look into the local myths, leg-ends and fairy tales of that location.  These tales will serve as the basis of your pantheon and direct its tone and scope, as well as give you a bit of insight to what life was like for people in your target time period. 
A location with a rich ancient mythology, like Greece 
or Italy, would likely have a Pantheon with its own set of politics and strict forms of worship.  Likewise, The Wild West in the post-Civil War era of the United States might have its fair of tall tales and local Legendaries, but unless you ventured into Native American territory, these beings likely wouldn’t be worshipped. 
If your Region didn’t directly draw inspiration from 
an existing location on Earth, or is on a scale too large to handle this way (such as a solar system or the entire continent of Asia or Europe, where you’re going to have more than one faith and several prominent cultures), it still helps to do some research on some of the world’s countless Mythologies as a basis; it helps to familiarize yourself with some of the usual themes in the primary Gods and Goddesses, and the ways people worshipped and viewed them.
The key take away from this part of your world build-
ing is you should get a good scope of what identities your Legendaries will take on, how the people in your Region perceive them, and how closely the Legendaries interact with one another.  It would also give you some insight into how other faiths or cults were treated and perceived.
If you’re really stumped on where to start with research-
ing Mythologies, here’s a few examples to get you start-ed and on your way to finding one that’s right for you and your setting.
• East Asian Mythologies: Chinese, Japanese, Korean, 
Hindu, the Phillippines
• European Mythologies: Baltic, Celtic, Anglo-Saxon, 
Norse, Greek, Roman, Slavic
• Native American Mythologies: Aztec, Mayan, Inuit, 
Incan
• North African and Middle East Mythologies: Egyp-
tian, Mesopotamian, Babylonian, Arabian
• Sub-Saharan Mythologies: Y oruba, Orisha, Voodoo
Build the Constellations
By now you should have at least a few deities in mind based on the Mythology you looked into, or at least have an idea for some common titles (A God of War, a Goddess of Fertility, etc.).  The next step would be choosing what Legendaries to map to each of these roles.  The good news here is…Game Freak made this pretty easy on you!  The majority of the Legendaries al-ready have their own stories behind them just from the video games alone, and quite a few of them even have built in rivalries or subservient Pokémon species.  Of-ten times the hardest part here is picking between two or three very fitting Pokémon, or deciding to change the Typing of one to better match a Myth.  For example, if we were working with Norse Mythology, it would be pretty easy to have Zekrom embody Thor, Reshiram for Loki, and Kyurem for Odin.  
Now, what might get tricky is if you wanted to work 
with a larger number of Mythologies.  Taking our pre-vious example, let’s say you also wanted to account for ancient Greece and Rome.  Y ou look at Zeus and Jupi-ter, and want to have them coexist as separate entities, but being how closely these two Myths are connected it’s difficult to choose separate Pokémon for both of them.  To add even more trouble, you really wanted to use Zekrom for this, but you already used that for Thor!  What do you do here?
Well, you have a few options on how you could han-
dle this.  The cleanest would be to just accept that there are several Zekroms in the world with similar roles in their respective Pantheons, but each looking over a different area in the world.  Y ou could try to use oth-er Legendaries as well, and apply Type Shifts to match as needed (such as using Zekrom for Thor, an Electric/
Unwinding the Secrets–35–
Flying Lugia for Jupitor, and an Electric/Flying Ho-Oh 
for Zeus).  Another could be that you utilize the Outer God concept and choose Pokémon that aren’t typically considered Legendary for these positions.  Maybe Thor is just a Pikachu with a mighty mythical hammer, Zeus is a Pachurisu with infidelity issues, and Jupitor is an Emogla.  
If you didn’t want to tie Pokémon directly to a mythi-
cal identity, but to create your own with its own roles, the process is still pretty easy because most Legendaries are identified this way.  Take a Fertility Goddess as an example; Mew is an obvious choice for this because she is portrayed as the progenitor of all Pokémon Species.  For a God of War, you have the Tao Trio, Lugia, the Mortality Duo, Victini, the Swords of Justice, the Birds and Beasts…I think you get the idea.  Choosing these should be pretty straight forward, and here’s a list of typical types of deities.  Y ou might realize later I ba-sically ripped this list from Wikipedia – and for good reason!  Wikipedia is a great place to start on research-ing existing Pantheons and learning of ones you’ve nev-er heard of before.
• The King of Gods (Odin, Jupiter, Zeus, etc.)
• Celestial Gods (Moon, Sun, Sky, Time, Weather, Rain, Lightning, Thunder)• Earthen Gods (Mother Nature, Ocean, Sea, Night)• Gods of Humanity (Death, Mother, Father, Fate, Fer -
tility, Love, Lust, Health, Hunting, Wisdom, Tricksters, War, Commerce)
Polish the Effigies
Once you’ve got your Pantheon created, all that’s left is relating it back to your Region.  Figure out what towns you want to be the key holy places, what the favored God of a town is, and where they might actually reside in your Region.  Also start to think about how your characters will end up interacting with these beings, and where, how, and under what circumstances they will meet under.
Another thing to start to think on is how the bad guys 
are involved with your Gods.  Are they devout followers of your Gods, or heretics?  Do they want a favor from the Gods, or to exploit them into doing something for them?  Are they followers of another faith with their own Gods?  Are these contrasting Pantheons on good terms, even if their followers are not?  What if the bad guys are cultists looking to resurrect an ancient evil that the Gods themselves fear or maybe sealed away?  Y ou got a lot to think on here, and there’s a lot of possibili-ties, but if you’ve done your homework in steps 1 and 2, this should be coming together pretty easily for you!

Unwinding the Secrets–36–
Legendary Auras
“What, you thought it was that easy? Oh you poor soul.  Let’s talk about auras, then… ”
All living things possess an Aura, though that of a god is a much more powerful thing.  All Legendary  Pokémon 
possess at least three domains.  These domains correlate to the essence of their Auras, and have powerful effects on the world around us. 
The following are basic guidelines of these Auras:
• For each Aura a Legendary  Pokémon has active, they gain +2 to each of their Combat Stages• A Legendary  Pokémon may only have three Auras active at any time, even if they possess more than that.• While a Legendary  Pokémon has an aura active, they may diminish the effectiveness of a single Super Effective attack to become a neutral resistance once a round for each Aura activated (So, in most cases, 3 per round)• When facing another Legendary  Pokémon, if they share an Aura, neither is effected by that particular Aura (So a Mew’s Life Aura has no effect on Ho-Oh)• If an Aura is disabled by any means and a Legendary  Pokémon possesses more than just those three, they may activate a remaining one instantly.• Arceus has access to every Legendary Aura.• A captured Legenday might not have access to all, if any, of its Auras.• A Legendary  Pokémon may extend their Aura to an ally, empowering them.  This may be a permanent or tem-porary blessing. 
That last one’s a great way for Trainers who don’t have much desire to capture or get blessed by a God to not feel like a muggle at Hogwarts.  The one above that?  Yeah, when you capture a a God don’t go expectin’ it to fight at full force for ya.  Mortals weren’t meant to command that sort of power.  Also storytellers, the zoofman tells me I should inform ya to look in the core rule-book for guidelines on boss encounters, with mechanics such as ‘HP Pools’ and handlin’ status effects differently.  Whatever all that mumbo jumbo means.

Unwinding the Secrets–37–
Chaos
Whenever an opponent rolls to hit the possessor of 
Chaos Aura with a Move, Struggle Attack or Feature, they roll two d20’s and take the lower result.  Whenever one of its combat stages would be lowered or be inflict-ed with a Status Effect as the result of a Move, Struggle Attack or Feature that hit it, roll d20; on a result of 11 or higher, the attacker is instead inflicted.
Concept
Concept is actually not an Aura in its own, but rather is used as a short hand to express that The Outer Gods each possess two Domains other than Fate.  If there is a Domain with a name matching one of the Concepts as-sociated for this Outer God’s Type, it possesses that Do-main (for example, Fire has the Love Concept, hence it has the Love Domain.)  For the rest, refer to the follow-ing:
Creation
The Possessor of the Creation Aura can both meld the world to their liking and bring forth servants of their own creation to do their bidding.  Once per turn the Possessor may do one of the following: • Place a Weather effect into play.  These Weathers are always Type Shifted to one of its Types in a manner to be beneficial for the Possessor.• Change up to five adjacent meters of terrain of the battlefield in any manner they please.  This could be creating walls, making difficult terrain, conjuring water to block off a path, ect.•Create servant to assist them in battle.  This servant is 
a  Pokémon with the same Level as the Possessor.
Creativity
The Possessor of the Creativity Aura may use the Fea-
turess Nuanced Performance, Reliable Performance, Bardic Flair and Power Chord, Fabulous Max, and Rule of Cool.  They may target themselves with these fea-tures, possess AP equal to 3 + (Possessor level / 5), and are considered to have 4d6 in all their Contest Stats.
Death
All that oppose the Possessor of Death Aura lose 1/10th their max HP per turn.  If any enemy combatants reach -100% HP , they instantly die.  Those slain in such a manner may be risen by the Possesor of Death Aura as its own loyal servants.  If an enemy combatant strikes the Possessor, they must roll a d20.  On a result of 5 or less, they are inflicted with Heal Block.
Devourer
While the Devourer Aura is active, the Auras of all oth-er Legendary  Pokémon in the vicinity are disabled.  If The Devourer Aura is disabled, they may invoke their Auras again.
Destruction
If the target of a Move used by the Possessor of Destruc-tion Aura would Resist it or is Immune to it, it instead does Neutral damage.  All passive damage (such as from weather effects, status effects, or spikes) the Pos-sessor would deal is doubled, and Magic Guard, Sturdy, and other defensive Abilities are disabled.
Gods that have this Aura tend to be pretty strong.  It’s fairly general, but what they do with it makes sense.  For example, Groudon probably doesn’t create water, but can make walls of stone or pitstraps.
Unwinding the Secrets–38–
Dreams
If the Possessor of Dream Aura hits an enemy with a 
Move, that target is instantly falls asleep, even if they have the Insomnia Ability.  Whenever the Possessor is inflicted with a status effect, the attacker must roll d20.  On a result of 10 or lower, they fall asleep.  If the Pos-sessor of Dream Aura is put to sleep, all combatants fall asleep.
Emotion
All who oppose the Possessor of Emotion Aura are im-mediately Confused, Enraged, and Infatuated with the Possessor.  Any Status Moves used by the Possessor that target an enemy or ally instead target all enemies or al-lies.  Abilities that give Immunity to Status Effects are disabled before the Possessor of Emotion Aura.
Equilibrium
All damage inflicted to the Possessor of Equilibrium Aura is returned to the assailant.   The Possessor may use Synchronize as a Free Action anytime they are in-flicted with a Status Effect that would trigger Synchro-nize.     
Fate
The Possessor of Fate Aura receives a bonus of +3 to all Attack, Skill, Feature, Status Recovery, and Opposed Rolls they make as long as the Aura is active.  All that oppose them receive a -3 penalty on all of these Rolls.
Glitch
Hitting the Possessor of Glitch Aura has a 50% of in-creasing your Glitch by 1.  At Glitch 1, all your moves turn into Metronome (with their normal frequencies.  For example, Leer would become At-Will Metronome).  At Glitch 2, whenever you use Metronome you roll for two moves, and the Possessor chooses the one you use.  At Glitch 3, you roll for three moves, and the Posses-sor picks one.  The Possessor of Glitch Aura always has Glitch 3.Heroism
The Possessor of the Heroism Aura has access to all Cheerleader Features and is treated as if their Charm and Command Skills are Master Rank.  They may target themselves with these features, and possess AP equal to 3 + (Possessor level / 5).  
Hivemind
The Possessor of the Hivemind Aura may use Hidden Power of any Type of their choice as if they had the Words of Power and Feature.  The Possessor also copies any Features from Mystical and Elemental Connection Classes from all combatants.  
Law
The Possessor of the Law Aura declares 3 rules.  All en-emy combatants must abide by these rules.  Breaking these rules provokes the wrath of the Possessor of the Law Aura, resulting in them receiving a free priority attack against the one who broke the rule.
Life
Possessors of the Life Aura may revive a knocked out or dead ally once per turn as a Swift Action.  This resur -
rected ally is healed as if they were treated at a Pokecen-ter and their injuries are cleared.  Possessors of the Life Aura may also use Heal Bell at EoT Frequency and have access to all Medium Features based on White Magic.
Storytellers shouldn’t be complete scumbags with this one.  ‘You may not attack me’ is no fun for anyone.  Think more like the Judges from Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced - that’s more the intent here.
Unwinding the Secrets–39–
Love
Possessors of the Love Aura may inflict one enemy 
combatant with the Infatuation status effect per round of combat.  This may effect either gender or targets without Gender.  Possessors of the Love Aura are also immune to Infatuation.  Whenever you hit the Posses-sor of the Love Aura, roll a d20.  On a result of 5 or lower, treat your attack as if it had the Keyword Recoil with a value of 1/4th, even if you are immune to Recoil damage.
Loyalty
The Possessor of Loyalty Aura judges the bond be-tween its enemies and their  Pokémon partners.  Any  Pokémon under Loyalty 5 have all their combat stages lowered to -3.  Each time a  Pokémon under this duress is issued a command, roll d20.  On a result of 7 or lower, their each of combat stages are lowered by another -1.
Luck
Fortune favors the Possessors of the Luck Aura.  When-ever they would roll a d20, roll 2d20 and take the high-er.  They are always treated as being under the effect of the Super Luck Ability.  The Possessor also emits pure luck, treating it and all allies as if they were holding a Luck Incense.
Knowledge
While this Aura is active, all who oppose its Possessor are Supressed.  Furthermore, all Moves they know of Scene or Daily frequency are Disabled; this includes Moves that were lowered to this frequency from Su-pression.  This persists as long as this Aura is active.
Matter
Possessors of the Matter Aura may add difficult ter -
rain and physical obstructions such as walls, cliffs, pits, lava, water, and other things of this nature to the battle-ground as they wish.  They and their allies are unaffect-
ed by these obstacles.  These additional elements to the 
map persist even if the Aura is not active.
Nature/Oceans/Sky
Possessors of the Nature, Oceans, or Sky Aura may 
beckon the assistance of the wilds once per round.  When this occurs, a new combatant enters the battle.  This combatant’s level is equal to the level of the Posses-sor if it’s a  Pokémon, and half their level if it’s a Trainer.  If they possess multiple of these Auras, they may sum-mon one ally per Aura per round.
Nightmare
Those who oppose the Possessor of the Nightmare Aura are affected by Frightened when they fall asleep.  Frightened causes those afflicted with it to be treated as Paralyzed as well as Suppressed, even if they would normally be immune to these effects.  This persists for the rest of combat, even if the Aura is disabled, and can-not be removed by conventional means.  If the conflict occurs in the Dream World, all who oppose the Posses-sor are treated as Frightened as soon as combat begins.
Pathogen
Whenever you hit the Possessor of the Pathogen Aura, roll d20.  On a roll of 5 or lower you become Infect-ed.  Infected individuals are considered Poisoned and Burned even if they would normally be immune to these status effects.  This persists for the rest of combat, even if the Aura is disabled, and may not be removed by conventional means.
Peace
Possessors of the Peace Aura seek to end conflict with as little bloodshed as possible.  Whenever you hit the Possessor with a Move, that Move becomes Disabled.  If all a combatant’s moves are Disabled, their Attack and Special Attack are set to -6 Combat Stages.  If this Aura is disabled, these effects fade.
Unwinding the Secrets–40–
Predator
The Possessor of the Predator Aura has access to all 
Taskmaster Features, including Press, and is treated as if their Intimidate and Command Skills are Master Rank.  They may target themselves with these features, and possess AP equal to 3 + (Possessor level / 5).  They may use Press on themselves, and when they do they do not receive injuries and only lose 1/16th their max HP .
Primal Weather
When the Primal Weather Aura is active, the Posses-sor sets the Weather with one of the following effects.  Attempts to override this Weather condition without removing this Aura fail to activate.Delta Stream:  Sets the Weather to Strong Winds. Elec-tric, Ice and Rock Moves do neutral damage to Flying Types while this Aura is active.  Desolate Land: Sets the Weather to Sunny.  Water Type Moves cannot be used while this Aura is active.Primordial Sea: Sets the Weather to Rainy.  Fire Type Moves cannot be used while this Aura is active.
Rejuvenation
The Possessor of the Rejuvination Aura is always con-sidered to have the Healer and Regenerator Abilities.  They may use both of these Auras once per round, and may also target others with their Regenerator usage.  
Rivalry
The Possessor of the Rivalry Aura cannot be brought below 1 HP , unless their paired Rival is one of their en-emies.  This Aura can also only be disabled by another Legendary with the Rivalry Aura, not necessarily their paired Rival.
Solitude
The Possessor of the Solitude Aura covers the arena in a heavy mist, dividing its enemies.  They become un-aware of the locations of their allies, and become un-able to hear, communicate with them via Aura or Te-lepathy, or contact with them through technological or other occult means.  This mist remains as long as this 
Aura is active.
Storms
The Possessor of the Storms Aura is always considered 
to have Sandstorm or Hail, and Sunny Day or Rain Dance active at once. These Weathers are always Type Shifted to one of its Types in a manner to be benefi-cial for the Possessor.  For Example, Zapdos might have an Electric Sandstorm and an Electric Rain Dance that empowers Electric Moves and weakens Ground Moves.  These Weather conditions cannot be over written while this Aura is active.
Symbiotic
The Possessor of the Symbiotic Aura extends this Aura to their Symbiant.  The two of them are always aware of each other’s locations, health and mood.  They can al-ways communicate telepathically.  They may also access each other’s Moves, Features, Skills and Edges, always using the higher of the two’s Skills or Stats.  The Combat Stage bonuses of the Aura are also applied to both par -
ties.  Unlike most Auras, this Aura cannot be disabled by normal means, and requires slaying one of the pair to undo.  
Time
The Possessor of the Time Aura may manipulate the Initiative Order in any manner they wish.  They may also, once per Scene for every enemy Trainer, use Freeze Time as a Free Action.  This must be used at the start of a Round of Combat and prevents anyone who does not possess the Time Aura from acting that Round.  
Trickery
The Possessor of the Trickery Aura has access to all Trickster Features.  They may target themselves with these features, and possess AP equal to 3 + (Possessor level / 5).  They also gain the following Abilities, and gain STAB on all Dark Type Moves: Prankster, Frisk, Infiltrator, Pickpocket, and Run Away.
Unwinding the Secrets–41–
The Rise and Fall of Gods
“What happens if you accidently kill one? Or intentionally? Good question… ”War
Possessors of the War Aura considers all of their Moves 
to be treated as if their Frequency has been increased by a PP Up.  They also inflict Injuries at 25% HP Markers, and Massive Damage is also treated as 25%.  Willpower
The Possessor of the Willpower Aura may Petrify a Tar -
get a Round as a Swift Action.  While Petrified, you are completely removed from the initiative order.  Petrify cannot be avoided, and can only be removed by a Pos-sessor of the Emotion, Knowledge, Life, Rejuvenation, or Willpower Aura.  Petrify persists even if the Aura is Disabled.
Folks who get afflicted by the Will-power Aura don’t always get turned to stone, but they do get sapped of motivation to do much else but stand still, and maybe pick at that itch that’s botherin’ em.
Nothing lasts forever, even a god.  Or, at least, in con-ventional manners.  Much like the Phoenixes of myth, when a god lives out its natural life span, it returns to the form of an egg to be born again.  While in this state they are incredibly vulnerable, so when approaching such a time they take great care to either find shelter with another of their kind, or with one of their trust-ed followers.  Destroying this egg or preventing a Leg-endary from entering this state (or leaving it) can have devastating ramifications.  To do so risks slaying the god indefinitely, and is a way many Usurpers attempt to complete their quests for godhood.  
To actually slay a God, a number of things must hap-
pen.  First, all its Legendary Auras must be disabled.  Only in this state is it truly at risk of death.  Disabling a Legendary Aura is not an easy task.  The following are a couple of ways of doing so, but only one Aura may be disabled every Two Rounds :
• The most straight forward approach of doing this is 
inflicting Massive Damage with a Super Effective attack – this could potentially cause one of its Auras to waver.  The problem is it’s extremely difficult to hit a Legendary with such force.
• Another would be introducing another being pos-
sessing a Legendary Aura to the fight.  Legendaries can disable an enemy’s Auras at the cost of disabling one of their own – a sort of checks and balances among the Gods.  To do so the Legendary must take a Standard Action to attempt to nullify the two forces.  This is not a Move nor Struggle attack, but has an AC of 10 and may be attempted at an EoT frequency.  Failure to meet the AC has no penalty, but meeting the AC instantly nulli-fies one Aura for each Legendary.  
• Expanding on the above, The Lake Trio are very effec-
tive at nullifying the Legendary Auras of other Gods.  Doing so can be done At Will with an AC of 10, and will not disable one of their own.  They were created for this purpose and excel at it.  However, a Legendary can still only have one Aura disabled every Two Rounds.
• Likewise, if a Legendary attempts to shatter an Aura of 
one of their servants (for example, Lugia and The Leg-endary Birds), they can without fail or disabling one of their own; Legendaries who are subservient to another simply cannot stand against their masters.  
Yes, this means Arceus has the power to, if he desired, disable Auras willy nilly.  Granted this is ultimate -
ly up to the storyteller, but it’s what the implication here is.
Unwinding the Secrets–42–
• Select Legendaries have exact rivals – The Tower Duo 
stand oppose to one another, as do The Tao Trio.  When two rival Legendaries meet on the battlefield, they can attempt to disable the Legendary Auras of their rivals in a manner similar to the Lake Guardians (At Will, AC of 10, not disable one of their own).
• Some Legendaries have weaknesses beyond combat;  
the lore of such artifacts and vices differs from Region to Region, but tales of beating Giratina at a rock off for everyone’s souls or a legendary blade with the power to cut away at the power of the Gods aren’t exactly un-heard of.  These options are at the GM’s discretionand based on lore they may have in place.  
• The Godslayer Gift grants a Trainer the ability to 
break a Legendary Aura.
Once all its Auras are Disabled, the God will not be-
come Unconscious but attempt to escape Combat when brought below 0 HP .   In this state it is capable of being Coup De Graced, but will continue to fight back against it.  At -100% Max HP , it dies as normal, but cannot die from excessive injuries.  Auras that have been disabled take 24 hours to restore their full effect.
Completely destroying a god causes a phenomena quite 
like that which occurs when one of The Outer Gods is absent; their domains run rampant and chaos can en-sue.  There is little one can do to correct such a matter except seeking out its original creator to bring a new one into this world.  In most cases that this occurs, this tends to be one of the higher Pantheon.  Though if one of them might fall, then Arceus itself must be sought out, which can be a difficult, if not nearly impossible, feat of its own.  
The Outsiders tend not to follow this pattern from ei-
ther being true immortals, as Arceus is as well, crea-tures of alien origin, or synthetic beings made by man.  Their demise can cause serious aftermath in the imme-diate area, but nothing outstanding as they tend to not have a true domain they control.
If by chance you somehow get ahold of a God in Egg form, there’s nothin’ stoppin a Hatcher from applin’ a little TLC to it, just like they could for any other Pokemon Egg.  Hell, a God would prob-ably thank them for properly takin’ care of them while they were in such a vurnable state.  Not to mention a God allyin’ with a Trainer while in a weakened, infant state is a pretty kawaii start to becoming a Blessed individual.  

The Blessed and Damned–43–
Chapter 3: The 
Blessed and damned
In this chapter you will find various character advance-ment options for Trainers who have been blessed, or cursed, by a Legendary Pokemon.  These options func-tion much like classes do; they begin with the purchase of a base Feature or Edge, and from there branch off  into further options.
However, I will stress that these advancement options 
are NOT classes.  Y ou can already have four classes, and still take Signer or Messiah as well.  They might look like classes, and be formatted like classes, but they ar -
en’t. 
There are two primary reasons they function this way.  
The first is that unlike Trainer Classes, you can’t really easily plan to take these options in a game.  It’s not very common for a game’s pitch to include that the players will without fail be introduced to Godly beings that will bestow powers upon them, so you really never know if this will come up or not.  And what would really suck is if you could not take this potential option because you already had four classes, or had your heart set on four classes.
This brings us to the second point - these options usu-
ally present themselves so late in a campaign that most Trainers will already have four classes by the time they are available.  As such, it really doesn’t make sense for them to abide by the four class limit.  So instead they are branches of general Features.  
Many of these Features have a prerequisite called ‘GM 
Permission’ , and this is pretty literal.  Y our GM has to okay you taking these Edges and Features, and often times will be the one to say, ‘yes, you can take this fea-ture if you desire to at some point. ’  Y ou could also ask when choosing an Edge or Feature upon level up if you could take it, and if there isn’t much narrative call for it yet, for that to spring up very soon in character.  Com-munication with your GM is very important with these matters, and everyone should be on the same page for what the expectations will be.
Also, you’ll see a thing called [PATRON STATS] for 
stat tags.  This is explained in greater detail later on - it’s short hand for whatever stat bonuses your Patron would give you for that Feature.  This is, generally, a Legendary’s two highest stats.  A full list is included when they are discussed in more detail.
The Blessed and Damned–44–
Touched
The most common of those given gifts of the divine are The Touched.  Often Touched individuals are devotees of 
their benefactor, cultists of a mysterious faith or heroes of great renown. In other instances they were simply in the right place at the right time.  The Touched have been blessed by a greater being.  This blessing is not just a measure of faith in the individual, but a force that changes them physically, mentally and spiritually. 
Mechanically, Touched is the main gate way for blessed individuals to aquire Gifts.  It includes both Edges and Feats, 
and more specific archtypes of Blessed individuals (Like Signers and Messiahs) require Touched as a prerequisite.  

The Blessed and Damned–45–
Edges
Touched
Prerequisites: GM Permission
StaticEffect : Y ou have been blessed by a Legendary and gain 
their Minor Gift.  This Legendary is considered one of your Patrons.  Y ou may take Touched multiple times, each time for a different Patron.
Soulbound
Prerequisites: TouchedStaticEffect : Whenever your Patron feels strong emotions 
(positive or negative) or pain, those sensations will be shared with you, no matter the distance between you. Y ou may take Soulbound multiple times, each time for a different instance of Touched. Feats
Major Gift
[PATRON STAT]Prerequisites: Touched, GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou gain one of your Patron’s Major Gifts.  This 
Major Gift may be of your GM’s choosing.  This feat is able to be taken multiple times based on your GM’s dis-cretion.
Pact Gift
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: All of your Patron’s Major Gifts, GM Per -
mission
Effect: Y ou gain your Patron’s Pact Gift. Lower Panthe-
on Legendaries do not have Pact Gifts.

The Blessed and Damned–46–
Signer
Where The Touched themselves are changed by their Patrons, Signers more act on the behalf of a deity.  Powers 
they gain more are channeled through them than controlled themselves, and as such they are not always as readily available as those of others.  
Both Messiahs and Signers use Blessings for their features.  These are different from Gifts, and are unique to these 
two classes.  Messiahs and Signers utilize Blessings in different ways.  They are discussed in greater detail in their own section.
Signer
[PATRON STAT]Prerequisites: Touched, GM PermissionStaticEffect : Choose a Rank 1 Blessing.  Y ou gain this Blessing in the form of a Sign.  Signs store the energy of the Divine, 
and may be activated as a Swift Action.  Signs can be used once per Scene, and cost 1 AP to activate.
Sign Mastery
[Ranked 4] [PATRON STAT]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Signer, GM PermissionRank 2 Prerequisites: A Major Gift, GM PermissionRank 3 Prerequisites: All your Patron’s Major Gifts, GM PermissionRank 4 Prerequisites: A Pact Gift, GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou acquire two Blessings in the form of Signs, marked with the Sign Mastery Rank you are gaining or 
lower.  Y ou must additionally meet any Prerequisites of the Blessing.
If your Patron does not have a Pact Gift, you instead require all their Major Gifts to attain Rank 4.
The Blessed and Damned–47–
Messiah
While all Touched individuals have been blessed on some level, Messiahs make up a very small number of the 
already limited Touched population.  These beings have devoted large portions of their lives to assisting their Patron, and act as their right hand in matters they themselves cannot.  While this may sound similar to Signers, Signers are less spiritually tied to their Patrons than Messiahs are – for while a Signer can channel Blessings through their Signs, the Messiahs require no such medium.
Both Messiahs and Signers use Blessings for their features.  These are different from Gifts, and are unique to these 
two classes.  Messiahs and Signers utilize Blessings in different ways.  They are discussed in greater detail in their own section.
The Blessed and Damned–48–
Messiah
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: Touched, GM PermissionOne Time Use/5 - Extended ActionEffect : Y our Connection with one of your Patrons has reached such a point that even you are capable of perform-
ing the miracles they are renowned and worshiped for.  Expending a use of Messiah allows you to perform such a miracle.  For example, in a Region where Shaymin is known to restore withered forests to their former glory, a Touched who is a Messiah of Shaymin might be able to cause a forest to start to rapidly recover from the aftermath of a wildfire.  Such acts are usually, but not always, noticeably supernatural and divine.
In My Name
[Ranked 4] [PATRON STAT]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Messiah, GM PermissionRank 2 Prerequisites: Completed a task on behalf of your Patron, GM PermissionRank 3 Prerequisites: A Major Gift, GM PermissionRank 4 Prerequisites: A Pact Gift, GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou acquire a Blessing marked with the In My Name Rank you are gaining or lower.  Y ou must additionally 
meet any Prerequisites of the Blessing.
If your Patron does not have a Pact Gift, you instead require all their Major Gifts to attain Rank 4.

The Blessed and Damned–49–
Branded
The Branded are individuals who have made a deal with a devil.  They have become literally branded in some 
form as proof as the contract, and while they will receive what they wished for, the stakes are always high in such transactions, and the devil always gets what’s due. They and their followers will constantly observe, follow, and hound you to accelerate the process, and may potentially trick or threaten into situations where you will fulfill the contract.  
This look vague?  Cause it’s supposed to be.  The contracts come in many forms and types, and it’s expected a storyteller whose introducin’ one would be talkin’ to the con-tractee in detail with it.  The big intent here isn’t small things, but big ones, like ‘I want the power to raise the dead, ’ and the cost being, ‘When you eventually depart from this world yourself, your soul is mine to keep. ’  It’s big things, big nasty things from big nasty mother hubbers you wanna eat your babies but are polite enough to be all legal like about it.  Though keep in mind, storytellers, this doesn’t really always gotta be this way.  This could be a rather interesting way to become Touched by Giratina, in a sense, by making the deal more an annoyance, a favor, or a drawback than a dire threat to one’s existence.   Also, feel free to make up your own Brands!
The Blessed and Damned–50–
Branded
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou have made a contract with a deity or other supernatural being and have been Branded for it.  This 
Brand may or may not be of your choosing.  The other party will uphold their side of the deal and expects you to do the same.  Other Legendaries may be wary to grant you Gifts in the future based on the contents of this contract.  Y our Patron Stats for this feature are those of the being you made your contract with.  If this being was not a typical Legendary, its Patron Stats are its two highest base stats.
Carrion Scent
Effect :  Y our sense of smell is enhanced, giving you the 
ability to track living things, as well as deceased, with little effort.  However, you will forever smell of a corpse yourself.
Mark of the Damned
Effect :  Y ou gain a literal Brand in the form of an unset-
tling tattoo on a noticeable part of your body, such as your face, hands, legs, arms, or torso.  It may also take the form of a deformation such as one of your eyes be-coming noticeably cursed or other such markings. This Brand allows the one who placed it upon you to com-municate with you and locate you at any time, any they may even have advice or offer to help you on occasion.  
Stigmata
Effect : Y ou have a permanent pain in your wrists and 
feet, and whenever you have more than 3 Injuries, you will bleed from these points of pain.  This bleeding will not allow you to recover from these Injuries without ex-tensive medical care and rest.  However, you no longer take max HP penalties from Injuries.
Total Solitude
Effect : Y ou completely lose your Aura and gain the 
Mindlock Capability.  This makes you untraceable to Aura Readers, but you also cannot receive Aura Pulse or Telepathic messages at all. If you have a Psychic related 
class other than Type Ace, Channeler or Aura Guard-
ian, your Feats in these classes are refunded.
Twisted Form
Effect : Y our very being becomes warped, taking on as-
pects of the one who Branded you.  Y ou gain the El-
emental Types they possess as well as a +4 to Intimi-dation checks, but receive a -4 penalty on Charm and Guile checks, as these deformations are unsettling to most people and Pokémon.
The Fate of the Branded
Branded might be a single feature, but its consequences are a large one.  Trainers who venture down this path are faced with a lot of challenges, and often steep conse-quences.  Their contractor is likely to harass them, pres-sure them, coerce them, threaten them and use guile to further ensnare them.  
That said, not all hope is lost.  By trying to win over 
other Patrons and seeking out the weaknesses of their Contractor, a Branded individual might through their own due diligence win their way out of their contract via a challenge or a loop hole.  How you approach this as a GM is up to you, and there are plenty of sources around you as inspiration for hooks of this nature in all sorts of flavors.  Maybe they must find a way to ban-ish their contractor to another plane, or challenge their contractor to a rock off and emerge victorious, but the key point is not even the devil himself always gets his way.The Brands
Yup, this one right here makes an excellent idea for an alternate way to make someone Touched.  Lot less severe than the others.  Well, some-what.  I sure wouldn’t want Giratina bein able to know when I’m in the restroom. 
The Blessed and Damned–51–
Usurper
Some don’t just seek the powers of the divine, they seek to be divine.  Long in history have been tales of mortals 
usurping the title of Godhood, and such a pattern persists till this day.  It is hardly an easy thing to accomplish, and wins one many enemies along the way.  Those who claim this title had best be prepared to defend it, for they won’t last long otherwise…
Usurper is one of the highest shenanigan advancement options in this book.  It’s a very morbid concept, and comes 
with a lot of power.  This is the sort of concept you want to make sure folks are on the same page about including as a player option, but it makes a -great- tool for building villians.  
There’s oft questions about how Usurpers handle taking damage between their forms.  The way this works is quite 
simple - when an Usurper takes damage in one form, both forms lose HP equal to the final amount of damage dealt.  If they are knocked out in one form, but not the other, they default to the still concious form.  Also, the following Edge is available to Usurpers to utilize their Features.
The Blessed and Damned–52–
Shared Strengths
[Ranked 3]  [PATRON STAT]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Pokemon Form Level 20Rank 2 Prerequisites: Pokemon Form Level 35Rank 3 Prerequisites: True Power, Pokemon Form Level 50Rank 1 Effect: Y ou gain access to your Legendary Form’s Abilities while in your Avatar form.Rank 2 Effect: Y ou gain your Legendary Form’s Types while in your Avatar FormRank 3 Effect: Y ou gain access to your Legendary Form’s Move List while in your Avatar Form.  
True Power
[PATRON STAT]Prerequisites: Shared Strengths Rank 2, Pokemon Form Level 40StaticEffect : Y ou gain one of the Domains and its corre-
sponding Legendary Aura associated with your Leg-endary Form.  This Feature may be taken multiple times, but with the second time at Pokemon Form Level 60, and the third at Pokemon Form level 75.Gift of Power
[PATRON STAT]Prerequisites:  Pokemon Form Level 60One Time Use Target: A Trainer Effect : Y ou gift your target with a Blessing of your own.  
Whether this makes them Touched, a Signer, or Brand-ed is at your digression.  The actual Blessings may not need be the one listed here for your Legendary Form, but ones of your own creation at your GM’s discretion.Usurper
[PATRON STAT]Prerequisites: Y ou have slain a God and through occult ritual or technology have absorbed its essence.  StaticEffect : Y our human form is now considered your Avatar, and you gain a second set of stats for your Pokémon 
form.  This form is that of the Legendary you usurped, starts at level 1 with the nature and abilities of your choice, and may gain experience as if it were a Pokémon you owned.  Switching between your human form and this one takes a Standard Action.  Usurpers cannot receive Gifts or Blessings from other Legendaries, as they are divinity themselves now.  Any Touched, Branded, Messiah, and Signer Edges and Features you possessed up until this point are refunded.  The Patron Stats for this Feature and all other Usurper Features matches the stats of the Legendary you Usurped.
Y our Legendary Form, by default, has access to all Capabilities, Abilities and Moves your Avatar does.
The Blessed and Damned–53–
General Legendary Gifts
Among the more general Gifts that can be granted by 
Legendaries, there are a number that simply aid in living in this world where humans can be touched by gods and given a spark of divinity. These such Gifts allow one to identify others who have received Gifts or even in some rare specific circumstances be able to shut down their Gifts.
Gift of Command
While many times Legendary Pokémon simply have separate domains, sometimes there is a distinct hierarchy among them. In these cases, the hierarchy passes down to the Gifted as well. While this does not allow those Gifted by, say, Ho-oh to directly command someone Gifted by Raikou or Entei, it does allow them a measure of ease in detecting those who have the Gifts of the subservient Legendary Pokémon and the ability to disable their powers.  The following Legendary Pokémon have subservient Pokémon to them:
Lugia : Articuno, Zapdos, Moltres
Ho-oh: Entei, Raikou, Suicune
Rayquaza: Groudon, KyogreLandorus: Thundurus, Tornadus Regigigas: Regice, Regirock, RegisteelCobalion : Virizion, Terrakion, Keldeo
Gift of Command
[PATRON STATS]Prerequisites: One Major Gift from Y our Patron LegendaryStatic | 2 AP - Standard Action, InterruptStatic Effect: Y ou sense the presence of and can identify those with Gifts coming from your patron’s subservient Pokémon. Y ou know which Gifts someone has from your patron’s subservient Pokémon by looking at them.2 AP Effect: Target Trainer within 8 meters with a Gift  from your patron’s subservient Pokémon has the Gift  of your choice from that subservient Pokémon disabled for the next ten minutes.Symbolsight
Each Legendary Pokémon holds dominion over a set of domains, and with these domains come particular symbols. A Legendary who presides over War may take the Spear or the Sword as its symbol, while a master of Creativity is symbolized by the Pen, and guardians of Death itself are marked by a Skull or Tombstone. Even without the blessing of a Legendary, humans can often be influential in these domains themselves, such 
as a powerful politician’s effect on the realm of Law or a 
famous civil rights activist’s influence upon Peace. 
Symbolsight is the ability to perceive these symbolic 
connections between mortal and divine realms. When perceiving a Trainer or Pokémon through Symbolsight, one can see their form change to match the symbols of their Patron’s realms or, as a weaker manifestation, to match the realms they are influential in despite a lack of Legendary Gift. 
Viewed through Symbolsight, a Trainer with the Gifts 
of Cobalion may appear to have three swords sheathed on their person, the emblem of a knight, and a scale of justice hanging above their head. A famous mechanic and artisan may appear with the stains of their work upon them, a faint imprint of their tie to the domain of Creation, whereas a Trainer Gifted by Regigigas would have a more substantial manifestation - their hands appear as a blacksmith’s hammerheads, the glowing sparks of a forge fly all about them, and each step they take leaves an imprint of soot upon the ground that quickly disappears. 
Pokémon in the service of a Legendary or objects with a 
mystical connection to a Legendary or its domains also appear with the symbols of their Patron when viewed through Symbolsight. Ordinary inanimate object and mundane people and Pokémon appear as normal 
through Symbolsight.
Note that Symbolsight is a useful Feature to give to a PC 
who is otherwise uninvolved in the acquisition of Gifts from Legendaries to avoid excluding them too much 
from a Legendary-heavy plot-line. It especially fits 
highly perceptive PCs, those with mystical or psionic 
talents, or someone who performs extensive hands-on 
The Blessed and Damned–54–
research on the supernatural.
Symbolsight
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStatic | 1 AP - Standard ActionTarget: SelfStatic : Y ou know when there are people, Pokémon, or 
objects that would appear differently to you through Symbolsight within an area of you about the size of a small town. Y ou do not know their location, number, or distance from you, only that there is at least one within the range of your sense.1 AP Effect: For the next ten minutes, you see the world through the lens of Symbolsight. Y ou may end this effect early as a Free Action.
Giftsapper
There are those for whom the Gifts of a Legendary are anathema. The reasons may vary greatly depending on what’s possible in your campaign and setting - they may simply have had a cursed birth or were at the epicenter of a supernatural disaster, or they may have specifically studied arcane arts to combat the Gifted. Either way, these individuals have no ability to gain Gifts of their own but pose a potent danger to the Gifted by making it more difficult for them to use their powers when nearby. Giftsapper is also a potent Feature to give antagonists facing off against a Gifted party.
Giftsapper
[+Any Stat] Prerequisites: GM Permission, No GiftsStaticEffect : As long as Giftsapper’s user is conscious, all 
Trainers within 10 meters must make a Focus Check with DC equal to three times the highest Skill Rank of Giftsapper’s user between Focus, Intimidate, or Command in order to activate their Gifts. This Check is made each time a Trainer attempts to use an activated Gift, and a failure means neither any resources such as AP nor the frequency of the Gift is expended. For Gifts with Static or ongoing effects, the Check is made each turn, and a failure ends the effect for that turn. Giftsapper’s user may never gain Gifts.Godslayer
This gift is a very curious one – one only the Higher Pantheon, some Outsiders, and Arceus himself can bestow.  Normally reserved for the greatest champions or followers of a God, this gift grants the Trainer the ability to shatter Legendary Auras.  Doing so can effectively grant this mortal the power to commit deicide.  This gift doesn’t always come in the same fashion – it might be from an artifact or a gift, such as a weapon, piece of armor or amulet.  It might come from extensive training or require extremely rare and expensive reagents.  Or it might just be a divine gift in its own right.  The specifics are a minor detail; the gift  itself is one to be handled with great care.
Godslayer
[PATRON STAT]Perquisites: GM PermissionStandard Action – EOTTarget: A Legendary  Pokémon.Effect : Y ou may attempt to shatter one of the target’s 
Legendary Auras.  The AC of this action is 10.  If you successfully disabled the Aura, but rolled a 10-15, the feedback from the action gives you an Injury.
The Blessed and Damned–55–
Legendary Blessings
Rank 1 Blessings
Ancient Wisdom
Messiah: Static
Signer: Free ActionMessiah Effect: Y ou gain an extra Dice on Education: Occult checks, as well as any Check dealing with Occult topics or situations.Signer Effect: Y ou may use Ancient Wisdom while making an Education: Occult check to add an additional Two Dice.
Blessed Strike
Messiah: Scene x3 – Free ActionSigner: Free ActionTrigger: Y ou hit an enemy with a Struggle AttackMessiah Effect: Y our Struggle Attack’s Type matches that of your Patron.  If your Patron has two Types, choose one.Signer Effect: Y our Struggle Attack deals Typeless Damage.
Paragon
Messiah: StaticSigner: Swift ActionMessiah Effect: When you take Paragon, choose either Body, Mind or Spirit.  Y ou gain +2 to all Skill Checks made with Skills under that group.Signer Effect: Y ou instead choose one of these Skill Groups, and gain a +1 bonus to this all Skill Checks under this category.  This lasts until the end of the Scene.  Y ou may choose a different Skill Group each time you activate Paragon.
Spirit Mending
Messiah: Daily x3 – Standard ActionSigner:  Standard ActionTarget: A Pokémon or TrainerMessiah Effect:  When using Spirit Mending, choose one of the following:  The Target is Heals 30 HP , or the Target recovers two Injuries.Signer Effect: The target recovers 50 HP and one Injury.Rank 2 Blessings
Blessed Power  
Prerequisites: Blessed StrikeMessiah: StaticSigner:  Swift ActionMessiah Effect:  Choose a Damaging Move on your Patron’s Level Up List that has a Damage Base of 8 or lower and matches one of their Types.  Y ou learn this Move.Signer Effect: Y ou instead gain this chosen Move until of combat.  Y ou may choose a different Move each time you activate this Sign.
Luck of the Gods
Prerequisites: ParagonMessiah: Daily – Free ActionSigner:  Free ActionMessiah Trigger – Y ou fail a Skill Check or Accuracy Roll.Signer Trigger – Y ou roll a Skill Check or Accuracy Roll.Messiah Effect:  Y ou may reroll this Skill Check or Accuracy Roll.Signer Effect: Y ou may add +4 to this Skill Check or +2 to this Accuracy Roll.
Soul Mending
Prerequisites: Spirit MendingMessiah: One Time Use/10 - Extended ActionSigner: InterruptMessiah Trigger: A Trainer or  Pokémon dies.Signer Trigger: A Trainer or  Pokémon is reduced below 0 HP .Messiah Effect: Y our divine powers allow you to intervene, saving the Target’s life.  They are set to 5 Injuries that will heal at half the normal rate, and 1 HP .Signer Effect:  The Target receives no further injuries after being reduced below 0 HP .  If being Knocked Out alone would set them to 10 injuries, they instead are set to 9 Injuries.
The Blessed and Damned–56–
Rank 3 Blessings
Blessed Resilience
Prerequisites: Blessed Power
Messiah: StaticSigner: Standard ActionMessiah Effect: Choose two Types your Patron has Resistance or Immunity to. Y ou gain Resistance to these types.Signer Effect:  Choose a single Type your Patron has Resistance or Immunity to.  Y ou gain this Resistance to this Type until the end of the Scene.  Y ou may choose a different Type each time you use Blessed Resilience.Insight of the Great Ones
Prerequisites: Ancient WisdomMessiah: Scene - Swift ActionSigner:  Swift ActionSigner Target: A Pokémon or Trainer.Messiah Effect: Y ou become aware of any Pacts, Patrons, or Allegiances the Target may have to a Legendary being or any organizations.  If this Target has a particular weakness (Both Narrative and mechanical), you become aware of it.  Y ou also become aware of any goals or motives the Target might possess at the moment.Signer Effect: Y ou learn one of the Target’s weaknesses (Narrative or mechanical).  If this target aligned to a Legendary or an organization, you become of aware of this fact, but not of who or what in particular.  Y ou also learn if this Targets motives or goals would harm your Patron or their followers.

The Blessed and Damned–57–
Patron Stat Tags
The following outlines what Stats you gain when taking 
Features with the [PATRON STAT] tag, based on what your Patron is.  In the event your Patron isn’t a standard Legendary Pokemon, Patron Stats are typically just the Pokemon’s two highest Stats. 
Mew: [+Any Stat]
Mewtwo: [+SpAtk] Heatran: [+SpAtk] Articuno: [+SpDef] 
Zapdos: [+SpAtk] 
Moltres: [+SpAtk] 
Raikou: [+Speed]
Entei: [+HP] 
Suicune: [+Defense or SpDef]Regirock: [+Defense]
Regice: [+SpDef]
Registeel: [+1 Defense or SpDef]
Regigigas: [+Attack]
Cobalion: [+Defense]Terrakion: [+Attack]
Virizion: [+SpDef]
Keldeo: [+SpAtk]
Uxie: [+Defense or SpDef]
Mesprit: [+Defense or SpDef]Azelf: [+Attack or SpAtk]
Tornadus: [+SpAtk]
Thundurus: [+SpAtk]
Landorus: [+Attack]
Lugia: [+SpDef]Ho-Oh: [+SpDef]
Latias: [+SpDef]
Latios: [+SpAtk]
Manaphy: [+Any Stat]
Celebi: [+Any Stat]Jirachi: [+Any Stat]Victini: [+Any Stat]
Shaymin: [+Any Stat]
Meloetta: [+Attack or SpAtk] 
Darkrai: [+SpAtk]
Cresselia: [+SpDef]
Kyogre: [+SpAtk] 
Groudon: [+Attack]
Rayquaza: [+Attack or SpAtk]
Reshiram: [+SpAtk]
Zekrom: [+Attack]
Kyurem: [+HP] Dialga: [+SpAtk]Palkia: [+SpAtk]Giratina: [+HP]Xerneas: [+Attack or SpAtk]Yveltal: [+Attack or SpAtk]Zygarde: [+HP] Diancie: [+Defense or SpDef]
The Blessed and Damned–58–
Legendary Gifts
No matter the intent or process involved, when a 
human is blessed by a Legendary Pokémon with some of its powers, use the following Legendary Gifts. These are sorted specific to species or sets of species, whereas there also exist more general Gifts that will be sorted by domain instead of species (see below). 
Minor Gifts are always Edges and represent the first step 
toward taking in a Legendary’s power. They are usually non-obvious effects or at least not overtly supernatural. It is uncommon, although possible, for Trainers to attain multiple Minor Gifts, particularly if they are from within the same set of Legendaries.
Major Gifts are Features that represent a strong alliance 
or blessing from a Legendary and are significant instances of granted supernatural power. They should not be attained easily, and accruing multiple Major Gifts should be very difficult. It is very rare for Trainers to attain Major Gifts from a second patron, and more than that is the stuff of legend. 
Pact Gifts are Features that represent either a nearly 
unbreakable bond between Trainer and Legendary, or a truly divine gift. They are usually the Legendary’s Signature Move and are incredibly powerful and difficult to attain. They universally require a Trainer to attain all of the Legendary’s Major Gifts. It is impossible for a Trainer to gain more than one Pact Gift. Lower Pantheon Legendaries do not have Pact Gifts.
These aren’t particularly balanced between options for 
various species and the like.  These are somewhat in your hands as a GM to sort out what would be too powerful for their campaign and what would be sensible.
Lower Pantheon Gifts
Legendary Birds and Beasts
Minor Gift - Elemental Soul
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Y ou can sense the presence of Pokémon of a given 
Type within 10 meters of you based on which Legendary Bird or Beast granted you this Edge. Articuno grants Ice, Moltres and Entei grant Fire, Zapdos and Raikou grant Electric, and Suicune grants Water.
Major Gift - Elemental Manipulation
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulEffect : Y ou gain a Capability based on which Legendary 
Bird or Beast granted you this Feature. Articuno grants Freezer, Moltres and Entei grant Firestarter, Zapdos and Raikou grant Zapper, and Suicune grants Fountain.
Articuno’s Major Gift - Winter’s Kiss
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Winter’s Kiss Ability.
Moltres’s Major Gift - Sun Blanket
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Sun Blanket Ability. Zapdos’s Major Gift - Lightningrod
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Lightningrod Ability. 
Entei’s Major Gift - Flash Fire
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Flash Fire Ability.
Raikou’s Major Gift - Volt Absorb
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Volt Absorb Ability.
Suicune’s Major Gift - Water Absorb
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Elemental SoulStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Water Absorb Ability. 
The Blessed and Damned–59–
Celebi
Minor Gift -  Catastrophe Sense
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Effect : Y ou have an intuitive sense of when natural 
disasters or other catastrophes are likely to occur near you.
Major Gift - Probability Control 
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Catastrophe SenseEffect : Y ou gain the Probability Control Ability.
Major Gift - Sprouter
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Catastrophe SenseStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Sprouter Capability.
The Golems
Minor Gift - Stoic Stature
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Y ou subtract half of your Athletics or Focus 
Ranks from the number of meters Push effects move you.
Major Gift - Mark of Loyalty
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Stoic Stature1 AP - Free ActionTarget: Y our PokémonEffect : Treat the Target as if it were one Loyalty higher 
for the rest of this turn.
Major Gift - Clear Body
Prerequisites: Major Gift – Mark of LoyaltyStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Clear Body Ability
Jirachi
Minor Gift - Watchful Sleep
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Y ou may make Perception Checks to detect 
imminent dangers while sleeping.
Major Gift - Eye of Truth
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Watchful Sleep1 AP - Standard ActionTarget: Trainer of PokémonEffect : Y ou can determine whether or not a professed desire by the Target is being sought for altruistic reasons for not.
Major Gift - Doom Desire
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Eye of TruthStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Doom Desire.
Eon Duo
Minor Gift - Loyal Heart
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Y ou are immune to Infatuation.
Major Gift - Sight Sharing
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Loyal Heart, *SpecialStaticEffect : Y ou must take this Major Gift alongside another 
person also taking this Major Gift, one of you gaining it through Latias and the other through Latios. The two of you are considered Link Partners. Whenever you wish, you may share your senses with your Link Partner or attempt to use their senses as long as both you and your Link Partner give mental consent and are conscious. Y ou and your Link Partner never hit each other with Area of Effect Moves unless you want to.
Latias’s Major Gift - Mist Ball
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Sight SharingStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Mist Ball. 
Latios’s Major Gift - Luster Purge
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Sight SharingStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Luster Purge.
Lake Guardians
Azelf ’s Minor Gift - Force of Will
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Reroll all dice that result in a roll of 1 when 
making Focus and Command Checks.
The Blessed and Damned–60–
Azelf ’s Major Gift - Drain Will
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Force of Will
3 AP - Standard ActionTarget: Pokémon or Trainer within 8 metersEffect : Y ou and the Target make a Contested Focus 
Check. If you win the Check, the Target is unable to take Shift or Standard Actions for their next 1d2 turns. Regardless of whether or not you won the Check, the Target suffers a -3 penalty to all rolls for the rest of the encounter, or for fifteen minutes outside of combat. The target becomes immune to further uses of Drain Will for 24 hours.
Uxie’s Minor Gift - Fount of Knowledge
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Choose two Education Skills. Reroll all dice that 
result in a roll of 1 when making Checks with those Skills.
Uxie’s Major Gift - Shatter Memory
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – Fount of Knowledge3 AP - Standard ActionTarget: Pokémon or Trainer within 8 metersEffect : Choose an effect: The Target has one Ability 
disabled at random or two Moves disabled at random for the remainder of the Encounter. Additionally, the Target must make a Focus Check with DC 10 to recall complex thoughts and memories for the next fifteen minutes. The target becomes immune to further uses of Shatter Memory for 24 hours.
Mesprit’s Minor Gift - Emotion’s Heart
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Reroll all dice that result in a roll of 1 when 
making Charm and Intuition Checks.
Mesprit’s Major Gift - Negate Emotion
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Emotion’s Heart3 AP - Standard ActionTarget: Pokémon or Trainer within 8 metersEffect : The Target becomes immune to Enraged, 
Confused, and Infatuation Status for the remainder of the encounter and are cured of the Status Afflictions if they currently have them. However, the Target is treated as if their Intimidate, Charm, Intuition and Guile Skills were at Pathetic Rank for the next fifteen minutes. The target becomes immune to further uses of Negate Emotion for 24 hours.The Sea Guardians
Minor Gift - Sailors’ Guardian
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Wild Pokémon up to a level of twice your Trainer 
Level will not attack or disrupt a water-borne vessel you are traveling on.
Major Gift - Hydration
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Sailors’ GuardianStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Hydration Ability.
Manaphy’s Major Gift - Heart Swap
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Sailors’ GuardianStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Heart Swap.
Shaymin
Minor Gift - Plant Intuition
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect: Y ou reroll all dice that result in a roll of 1 when making Survival Checks related to plants. Y ou automatically identify all berries and apricorns on sight.
Major Gift - Pure Breathing
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Plant IntuitionStaticEffect : Y ou are immune to the Moves Rage Powder, 
Poison Gas, Poisonpowder, Sleep Powder, Smog, Smokescreen, Spore, Stun Spore, and Sweet Scent.
Major Gift - Sprouter
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Plant IntuitionStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Sprouter Capability. 
Major Gift - Seed Flare
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Pure Breathing, Major Gift  - SprouterStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Seed Flare.
The Blessed and Damned–61–
The Swords of Justice
Minor Gift - Spirit of Justice
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Effect : Y ou may add your Spirit Modifier instead of your 
Body Modifier when making Combat Skill Checks. Y ou get a +2 bonus to Disarming or resisting Disarming.
Major Gift - Sacred Sword
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Spirit of JusticeStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Sacred Sword
Major Gift - Courage
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Spirit of JusticeStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Courage Ability.
The Kami Trio
Minor Gift - Cloud Reading
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Y ou get a +3 bonus to Survival Checks to discern 
upcoming weather from observing clouds in the sky.
Major Gift - Levitate
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Cloud ReadingStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Levitate Ability.
Major Gift - Therian Form
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Cloud ReadingDaily - Free ActionTarget: SelfEffect : Create an extra stat block for yourself, 
redistributing any Stat Points you gained from level ups or [+Any Stat] tags as you wish. Y ou may activate this Major Gift during an encounter to swap your stats to the extra stat block for the rest of the encounter. Therian Form may be ended early at any time as a Standard Action. Therian Form automatically deactivates if you Faint. While Therian Form is active, you take on slight Avian, Bestial, or Draconic characteristics depending on your patron Legendary.Meloetta
Minor Gift - Dazzling the Stage
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect : Whenever you use song or dance for Intimidate, 
Guile, or Charm, you may add half of the highest Skill Rank you have among these Skills to your Skill Check.
Major Gift - Soundproof
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Center StageStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Soundproof Ability.
Major Gift - Relic Song
Prerequisites: Major Gift - SoundproofStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Relic Song.
Diancie
Minor Gift - Royal Privilege
Prerequisites: GM PermissionEffect :  Y ou may wear Shards as a Trainer Accessory, 
and gain a +2 bonus to Skill Checks for the Skill linked to the shard’s color.  Red is linked to Intimidate, Orange to Command, Y ellow to Charm, Green to Intuition, Blue to Guile, and Violet to Focus.
Major Gift - Magic Bounce
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Royal PrivilegeStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Magic Bounce Ability.
Major Gift - Diamond Storm
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Magic BounceStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Diamond Storm.
The Blessed and Damned–62–
Upper Pantheon Gifts
Mew
Minor Gift - Motherly Compassion
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Effect : Y ou get a +3 Bonus to all Intuition and Charm 
checks for the purpose of discerning emotions and comforting someone.
Major Gift - Barrier
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Motherly CompassionStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Barrier. 
Major Gift - Gentle Vibe
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Motherly CompassionStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Gentle Vibe Ability.
Major Gift - Mirage
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Motherly CompassionDaily/25 - Standard ActionTarget: AreaEffect : Y ou create a small Illusion, covering a cubic 
area two meters on each side. The Illusion can emulate visual and auditory senses only. Seeing through the Illusion is a DC 15 Perception Check, with a +5 bonus to the check if the Illusion is emulating something very familiar to the observer. The Illusion may be sustained for up to ten minutes as a Swift Action each round.
Pact Gift - Origin Tutor
Prerequisites: All Mew Major GiftsActivate Once/10 - Extended ActionTarget: Y our Pokémon with at least 3 Tutor PointsEffect : Y our Pokémon loses 3 Tutor Points and may 
make use of any TM or Tutoring effect to learn a single Move regardless of what it is normally capable of learning. It must still pay any Tutor Point costs for this effect. Y ou may only target a Pokémon once with Origin Tutor.
The tower Duo
Minor Gift - Tower’s Rejuvenation
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Effect : Resting now allows you to recover 1/10th of 
your maximum HP per half hour instead of 1/16th.Major Gift - Tower’s Blessing
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Tower’s Rejuvenation1 AP - Free ActionTrigger: Y ou or your Pokémon use a Move with the Blessing KeywordEffect : The Move generates one additional use of the 
Blessing.
Major Gift - Life Force
Prerequisites: Two Major Gifts from the Tower DuoStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Life Force Ability. 
Ho-oh’s Major Gift - Ashes of the Phoenix
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Tower’s RejuvenationDaily - Standard ActionTarget: Adjacent Pokémon or TrainerEffect : Treat the target as if you had used a Revive on it. 
The target regains 25% of its maximum HP .
Ho-oh’s Pact Gift - Sacred Fire
Prerequisites: All Ho-oh and Shared Tower Duo Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Sacred Fire.
Lugia’s Major Gift - Storm of the Century
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Tower’s RejuvenationDaily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : At the beginning of your next three turns, push 
all foes within 5 meters of you 1 meter away, and they lose 1/10th of their maximum HP .
Lugia’s Pact Gift - Aeroblast
Prerequisites: All Lugia and Shared Tower Duo Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Aeroblast.
The Blessed and Damned–63–
The Weather Trio
Groudon’s Minor Gift - Landmaster
Prerequisites: GM Permission
StaticEffect : Y ou treat Rough Terrain that is rocky or sandy 
or that is created by Groundshaper as Regular Terrain.
Groudon’s Major Gift - Drought
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - LandmasterStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Drought Ability. 
Groudon’s Major Gift - Earthshaker
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - LandmasterStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Groundshaper Capability. 
Groudon’s Major Gift - Magma Spirit
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - LandmasterDaily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : For the next three rounds, foes within 6 meters 
of you do not gain the benefits of Sunny Day. Their Fire Type Moves do not deal extra damage, Solar Beam retains the default charge time, Abilities based on Sunny Weather do not activate, and Moves such as Synthesis do not gain added benefit. All detrimental effects of Sunny Day still apply.
Groudon’s Pact Gift - Eruption
Prerequisites: All Groudon Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Eruption.
Kyogre’s Minor Gift - Seamaster
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou treat deep water that you aren’t fully 
submerged in as Regular Terrain.
Kyogre’s Major Gift - Drizzle
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - SeamasterStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Drizzle Ability. Kyogre’s Major Gift - Wavecrasher
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - SeamasterStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Fountain Capability.
Kyogre’s Major Gift - Aqua Spirit
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - SeamasterDaily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : For the next three rounds, foes within 6 meters of 
you do not gain the benefits of Rain Dance. Their Water Type Moves do not deal extra damage, Hurricane and Thunder retain their usual Accuracy Check, Abilities based on Rainy Weather do not activate, and Moves such as Weather Ball do not gain added benefit. All detrimental effects of Rain Dance still apply.
Kyogre’s Pact Gift - Water Spout
Prerequisites: All Kyogre Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Water Spout.
Rayquaza’s Minor Gift - Clear Skies
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStatic Effect : Y ou learn the Move Defog.
Rayquaza’s Major Gift - Air Lock
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Clear SkiesStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Air Lock Ability. 
Rayquaza’s Major Gift - Air Adept
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Clear SkiesStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Guster Capability.
Rayquaza’s Major Gift - Sky Spirit
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Clear SkiesDaily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : To use Sky Spirit, the current Weather must be 
Clear as a result of Defog or Air Lock. For the next five rounds, foes within 10 meters of you have their Sky and Levitate Capabilities halved. Allies within 10 meters of you add 10 to their Initiative.
The Blessed and Damned–64–
Rayquaza’s Pact Gift - Hyper Beam
Prerequisites: All Rayquaza Major Gifts
StaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Hyper Beam.
The Creation Trio
Major Gift - Realm Portal
Prerequisites: One Creation Trio Major GiftDaily - Extended ActionTarget: AreaEffect : Y ou open a small portal through your patron’s 
realm to any location you have visited within 20 miles. The portal lasts for two minutes, during which any living thing which voluntarily wishes to enter the portal may do so; any conscious trainers or Pokémon forced through the portal involuntarily will not be affected by the portal. After the two minutes are up or when you step through the portal, it collapses.
Dialga’s Minor Gift - Perfect Timing
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou always intuitively know what time it is and 
can accurately act as a human stopwatch. 
Dialga’s Major Gift - Probability Control
Prerequisites: Perfect TimingStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Probability Control Ability.
Dialga’s Major Gift - Time Stop
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Realm PortalDaily - Swift Action, InterruptEffect : Take an additional Shift Action and Standard 
Action. 
Dialga’s Pact Gift - Roar of Time
Prerequisites: All Dialga and Shared Creation Trio Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Roar of Time
Palkia’s Minor Gift - Spatial Awareness
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou intuitively know the size of an object or the 
distance between objects by sight down to the nearest centimeter for distances and lengths up to 10 meters.Palkia’s Major Gift - Nomad
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Spatial AwarenessStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Transporter Ability. Note that this 
automatically grants you the Move Teleport.
Palkia’s Major Gift - Space Distortion
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Realm PortalDaily - Standard ActionTarget: Pokémon or TrainersEffect : Exchange the positions of up to three target 
Pokémon or Trainers within 10 meters.
Palkia’s Pact Gift - Spacial Rend
Prerequisites: All Palkia and Shared Creation Trio Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Spacial Rend.
Giratina’s Minor Gift - Death Sense
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : When encountering a corpse, you can always 
tell how many hours ago the Pokémon or Trainer has died, for up to a week after their death. 
Giratina’s Major Gift - Pressure
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Death SenseStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Pressure Ability.
Giratina’s Major Gift - Banish
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Realm PortalDaily - Standard ActionTarget: Pokémon or TrainersEffect : Remove a single Target within 8 meters from the 
encounter for 1d2+1 rounds. The Target experiences no loss of time. They reappear in the same spot that they disappeared from, or in the nearest unoccupied space.
Giratina’s Pact Gift - Shadow Force
Prerequisites: All Giratina and Shared Creation Trio Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Shadow Force.
The Blessed and Damned–65–
The Lunar Duo
Minor Gift - Dream Mastery
Prerequisites: GM Permission
StaticEffect : Y ou are immune to Hypnosis, Nightmare, and 
Dream Eater. 
Major Gift - Oneiromancy
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Dream MasteryStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Dream Reader Capability;
Major Gift - Dream Augury
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Dream Mastery2 AP - Extended ActionTarget: SelfEffect : Y ou fall into a deep sleep and dream a dream 
that portends of things to come. If this Major Gift is gained through Cresselia, you learn hints of a favorable situation that will arise soon. If this Major Gift is gained through Darkrai, you learn hints of a dangerous or mournful situation that will arise soon. 
Cresselia’s Major Gift - Dreamspinner
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Oneiromancy, Major Gift - Dream AuguryStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Dreamspinner Ability.
Cresselia’s Pact Gift - Lunar Dance
Prerequisites: Major Gift - DreamspinnerStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Lunar Dance.
Darkrai’s Major Gift - Bad Dreams
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Oneiromancy, Major Gift - Dream AuguryStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Bad Dreams Ability.
Darkrai’s Pact Gift - Dark Void
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Bad DreamsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Dark Void.Heatran
Minor Gift - Vulcan’s Intuition
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou get a +3 bonus to Perception and Survival 
Checks made in mountainous and volcanic areas.
Major Gift - Tremorsense
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Vulcan’s IntuitionStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Tremorsense Capability.
Major Gift - Lava-blooded
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Vulcan’s IntuitionStatic | Scene - Free Action, InterruptStatic Effect: Y ou are immune to the ambient heat of volcanic areas. Unless you come into direct contact with molten rock, you will not be harmed. Y ou resist Fire Type Moves by one step.Scene Effect: Y ou may trigger Lava-blooded as an interrupt when you are hit by a Fire Type Move. Y ou take no damage or other effects from the Move, and you make a 1 meter burst. All targets caught in the burst lose 1/16th of their maximum HP .
Major Gift - Magma Armor
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Vulcan’s IntuitionStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Magma Armor Ability.
Pact Gift - Magma Storm
Prerequisites: All Heatran Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Magma Storm
Regigigas
Minor Gift - Hands of the Creator
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou get a +3 bonus to all Knowledge: Occult or 
Knowledge: Petrology rolls to identify materials that would be used in crafting or the purpose of a crafted object.
The Blessed and Damned–66–
Major Gift - March of the Colossus
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Hands of the Creator
2 AP - Standard ActionTarget: Trainer or PokémonEffect : For the next three rounds, the target has their 
Attack and Speed halved. At the end of the third round, increase the target’s Attack and Speed by two Combat Stages each. 
Major Gift - Primal Craftsmanship
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Hands of the CreatorStaticEffect : Y ou pay 20% less when crafting items.
Major Gift - Animate
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Primal CraftsmanshipDaily - Extended ActionTarget: MaterialsEffect : Create a small golem out of the inanimate 
material of your choice. The material used will determine the Type of the golem. Scrap metal may create a steel type, lava a fire type, and granite a rock type for example. Distribute a number of Stat Points to the golem equal to your Trainer Level. The golem is small size, weight class 1, and has Overland 4, Jump 0/0, Power 2, and Sinker. It can make Struggle Attacks of its Type. The golem must be verbally commanded by you to act. It cannot regain HP and is destroyed upon Fainting. At the end of the day or if you Faint, the golem crumbles and is destroyed. 
Pact Gift - Crush Grip
Prerequisites: All Regigigas Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Crush Grip
Victini
Minor Gift - Chosen of Victory
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Whenever you spend AP to raise your roll on an 
Accuracy Check, you get +3 bonus instead of +1.  Major Gift - Searing Blade
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Chosen of Victory2 AP - Free ActionEffect : Y our next Struggle Attack with an equipped 
weapon deals +2 Damage Steps and deals Fire Type damage.
Major Gift - Blaze Armor
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Chosen of Victory2 AP - Free Action, InterruptEffect : Y ou take damage from the next Attack that 
hits you as if you were Fire Type. If the Attack was made in melee range, your attacker loses 1/8th of their maximum HP as a Fire Type effect. Apply weakness and resistance. Do not apply stats.
Major Gift - Victory Star
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Chosen of VictoryStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Victory Star Ability.
Pact Gift - V-Create
Prerequisites: All Victini Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move V-Create
The Tao Trio
Major Gift - Invert Balance
Prerequisites: One Tao Trio Major GiftDaily - Standard ActionTarget: AreaEffect : The area becomes Inverted for the next 5 
rounds. While Inverted, all Pokémon and Trainers have their weaknesses and resistances exchanged. Double resistance and steps of resistance or immunity beyond that become double weaknesses, normal resistances become normal weaknesses, normal weaknesses become normal resistances, and double weaknesses become double resistance.
Reshiram’s Minor Gift - Hero of Truth
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou get a +3 bonus on Intuition Checks to 
discern when someone is lying.
The Blessed and Damned–67–
Reshiram’s Major Gift - White Y ang
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Hero of Truth
Daily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : All allies within 5 meters may choose to increase 
all movement speeds by 2, raise their Attack and Special Attack Stats by 1 Combat Stage, and decrease their Accuracy by 2 for the next three rounds. 
Reshiram’s Major Gift - Turboblaze
Prerequisites: Major Gift - White Y angStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Turboblaze Ability.
Reshiram’s Pact Gift - Blue Flare
Prerequisites: All Reshiram and Shared Tao Trio Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Blue Flare.
Zekrom’s Minor Gift - Hero of Ideals
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Y ou get a +3 bonus on Intuition Checks to 
discern someone’s beliefs and ideals.
Zekrom’s Major Gift - Black Yin
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Hero of IdealsDaily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : All allies within 5 meters may choose to decrease 
their movement speeds by 1 and raise their evasion by 2 for the next three rounds. 
Zekrom’s Major Gift - Teravolt 
Prerequisites: Major Gift - Black YinStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Teravolt Ability. 
Zekrom’s Pact Gift - Bolt Strike
Prerequisites: All Zekrom and Shared Tao Trio Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Bolt Strike.Kyurem’s Minor Gift - Hero of Balance
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Others get a -3 penalty to Intuition Checks to 
detect your lies or discern your beliefs.
Kyurem’s Major Gift - The Empty Tao
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Hero of BalanceDaily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : For the next three rounds, all Pokémon and 
Trainers within 5 meters of you have all Combat Stages locked to zero.
Kyurem’s Major Gift - Winter’s Kiss
Prerequisites: Major Gift - The Empty TaoStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Winter’s Kiss Ability.
Kyurem’s Pact Gift - Glaciate
Prerequisites: All Kyurem and Shared Tao Trio Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Glaciate
Kyurem’s Pact Gift - Freeze Shock
Prerequisites: All Kyurem and Shared Tao Trio Major Gifts, Minor Gift - Hero of IdealsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Freeze Shock.
Kyurem’s Pact Gift - Ice Burn
Prerequisites: All Kyurem and Shared Tao Trio Major Gifts, Minor Gift - Hero of TruthStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Ice Burn
The Mortality Duo
Major Gift – Shared Mortality
Prerequisites: One Mortality Duo Major GiftDaily x3 – Standard ActionTarget: An Allied  Pokémon or Trainer.Effect : Add your remaining Hit Points with those of 
your Target.  Y ou may split these Hit Points as you wish between you and your Target.
The Blessed and Damned–68–
Xerneas’s Minor Gift – Rejuvenating Aura
Prerequisites: GM Permission
StaticEffect : When taking an Extended Rest, you and all 
Trainers and  Pokémon in the vicinity are treated as if you spent the night at Poke Center, regardless of where you are.
Xerneas’s Major Gift – Bounty of Life
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – Rejuvenating AuraDaily – Standard ActionTarget: A  Pokémon or Trainer.Effect : The Target is cured of all Injuries and Status 
Effects.
Xerneas’s Major Gift – Fairy Aura
Prerequisites: Major Gift- Bounty of LifeStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Fairy Aura Ability.
Xerneas’s Pact Gift – Geomancy
Prerequisites: All Xerneas Major Gifts and Shared Mortality Duo GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Geomancy.
Yveltal’s Minor Gift – Death Dealer
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect : Injuries you inflict will not heal at the normal 
rate and require extensive medical treatment, such as staying at a Poke Center, to heal.  Instead of recovering at the normal rate of three Injuries per day while at such a facility, they heal at a rate of one injury a day.
Yveltal’s Major Gift – Touch of the Flayed One
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – Touch of DeathDaily x3 – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou inflict Injuries on a Target.Effect :  Y ou inflict an additional Injury.
Yveltal’s Major Gift – Dark Aura
Prerequisites: Major Gift – Touch of the Flayed OneStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Dark Aura Ability.Yveltal’s Pact Gift – Oblivion Wing
Prerequisites: All Yveltal Major Gifts and Shared Mortality Duo GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Oblivion Wing.
Zygarde
Minor Gift – World Serpent’s Embrace
Prerequisites: GM PermissionScene – Extended ActionEffect : Y ou enter a trance and discern if any Legendary  
Pokémon are in the vicinity of the Scene, and gain a general idea of their location.  For example, if one is in a cave way underneath you, you learn it is under you, but not exactly how to reach it.
Major Gift – He Who Cannot Be Shackled
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – World Serpent’s EmbraceDaily x3 – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou become Trapped, Slowed, Tripped or Grappled.Effect : Y ou evade the Status Effect or Combat Maneuver. 
Major Gift – God Crusher
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – World Serpent’s EmbraceStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Godslayer Feature.  If you already 
possess the Godslayer Feature, you may instead take another Feature for which you qualify for instead.  When using Godslayer, the AC is now 8, and you do not suffer from feedback.
Major Gift – Aura Break
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – World Serpent’s EmbraceStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Aura Break Ability.
Pact Gift – Land’s Wrath
Prerequisites: All of Zygarde’s Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Land’s Wrath.
The Blessed and Damned–69–
The Outsider Gifts
Mewtwo, Genesect, Deoxys
...don’t grant gifts.  They’re aliens and science 
experiments that are extremely powerful, but they are not part of the Pantheon, nor do they have any other way of granting divine gifts.
That said, while Mewtwo does not grant divine gifts, a 
Mewtwo’s symbiant does have access to the following  gifts via Touched Edges and Features.
Minor Gift – Twin Souls
Prerequisites: GM PermissionStaticEffect :  Y ou and the Mewtwo you are bound to may 
communicate telepathically, no matter the distance between you.  Y ou are also gifted the Soulbound Edge.
Major Gift – Expanded Horizons
Prerequisites: Minor Gift – Twin SoulsStaticEffect : Y ou gain either the Telepath or Telekinetic 
Capability.  If you possess both of these from their respected Trainer Classes, you instead gain the Godslayer Feature.
Major Gift – Mental Suggestion
Prerequisites: Major Gift – Expanded HorizonsDaily – Extended ActionEffect : Mental Suggestion requires both you and the 
Mewtwo you are bound to be in the same vicinity.  Make a Focus check as if you were using Telepath.  On a success, you instill a thought or action into the Target’s mind as if it were one of their own.  They may not immediately act on it, and will question it if it is too alien from how they would normally act, but the thought will persist as long as they are unaware of its origin.
Pact Gift – Psystrike
Prerequisites: Twin Souls, Expanded Horizons, Mental SuggestionStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Psystrike.MissingNo
MissingNo is a unique case in that there are multiple 
interpretations offered in this book, and one set of Gifts would not be able to cover all of them. Some interpretations may not offer any Gifts at all, much like the other Outsiders don’t. For example, if MissingNo were simply a literal glitch in the system of reality and not even a sentient being, one could hardly expect to receive a blessing from it. Some interpretations, such as the fallen creator or the network god, would, however, and so what will be offered here is a mixture of Gift  ideas fitting various interpretations of MissingNo that can be used as a springboard for your own creations.
Cosmic Horror
Minor Gift - Alien Countenance
Prerequisites: GM Permission
StaticEffect : Y ou may add your Mind Modifier instead of 
your Body Modifier to your Intimidate Checks. Y ou get a +2 bonus to Intimidate Checks against Pokémon.
Major Gift - Amorphous
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Alien CountenanceStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Amorphous Capability.
Major Gift - Phasing
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Alien CountenanceStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Phasing Capability.
Major Gift - Mind Lock
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Alien CountenanceStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Mind Lock Capability.
Pact Gift - Hypergeometry
Prerequisites: All MissingNo Major GiftsStatic | Scene - Standard Action, InterruptStatic Effect: Y ou may always treat the distance between you and any other Trainer or Pokémon as one meter greater or one meter less as you choose for the purpose of calculating range or distance of travel. Y ou may not use this to avoid melee attacks by switching between 
The Blessed and Damned–70–
making their distance greater or less - a value is chosen 
when an action is announced and cannot be changed afterwards.Scene Effect: Y ou may activate this Pact Gift once per Scene when hit by a single target attack. The attack instead hits a target of your choice in an adjacent square to you.
Fallen Creator
Minor Gift - Detect Heretic
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Static Effect : Y ou intuitively sense the presence of those with 
non-MissingNo Gifts around you, though you have no way of telling who they might be. The more Gifts someone has, the further away you can sense them, though you generally cannot sense even the strongest of Gift holders at a distance of more than 15 meters away from you.
Major Gift - Knight of the Fallen God
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Detect HereticStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Giftsapper Feature regardless of 
prerequisites, and you are not bound by its requirements with respect to Gifts. Giftsapper when gained this way has no effect on Gifts granted by MissingNo.
Major Gift - Corrupt Existence
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Detect HereticX AP - Standard ActionTarget: Trainer or Pokémon within 6 metersEffect : For each AP spent on Corrupt Existence up to 
a maximum of 3, roll 1d20. The Target becomes one step weaker against a Type for each roll as follows:  Bug on a result of 1; Dark on 2; Dragon on 3; Electric on 4; Fighting on 5; Fire on 6; Flying on 7; Ghost on 8; Grass on 9; Ground on 10; Ice on 11; Normal on 12; Poison on 13; Psychic on 14; Rock on 15; Steel on 16; Water on 17; and on a result of 18-20, reroll the 1d20. This effect lasts until the end of the encounter, even if the target is recalled.
Major Gift - Storm of the Fallen World
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Detect HereticScene - Standard ActionTarget: AreaEffect : For 5 rounds, the area becomes Bugged. While Bugged, all combatants are treated as if they have had the Move Heal Block applied to them, all combatants become Typeless and all effects deal only Typeless damage. At the beginning of each round, all combatants lose 1/16th of their maximum Hit Points.
Pact Gift - Slayer of the False Gods
Prerequisites: All MissingNo Major GiftsDaily - Standard ActionTarget: Legendary Pokémon Effect : Dispel one of the target’s Legendary Auras for 
the rest of the encounter.
New God of network security
Minor Gift - Intuitive Sabotage
Prerequisites: GM Permission
StaticEffect : Whenever you make a Knowledge: Technology 
Check to destroy, sabotage, or otherwise disrupt modern electronics, you get a +3 bonus to your roll.
Major Gift - Glitch Message
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Intuitive Sabotage2 AP - Standard ActionTarget: Electronic CommunicationEffect : Y ou must use Glitch Message targeting 
one instance of electronic communication you are currently aware of in your vicinity, such as an email being typed at the computer next to you or a text message someone is sending. Y ou may view and edit the contents of the message before it gets electronically transmitted without the sender being aware of an issue. On extended communications such as a phone call or video conference, Glitch Message works on one minute’s worth of communication per activation.
Major Gift - Dead Zone
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Intuitive SabotageDaily/15 - Standard ActionTarget: AreaEffect : For the next ten minutes, all wireless 
communication within ten meters of you fails to work. Radios stop receiving, WiFi shuts down, and cell signals fail to reach phones.
The Blessed and Damned–71–
Major Gift - See the Wired
Prerequisites: Minor Gift - Intuitive Sabotage
Daily - Standard ActionTarget: SelfEffect : For the next 5 minutes you can see networks as a 
visual overlay when you look at people communicating electronically. Y ou view this in the form of lines of light arcing from devices to the other devices they are communicating with.
Pact Gift - Ghost in the Machine
Prerequisites: All MissingNo Major GiftsStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Wired capability. Electronics 
you are occupying gradually degrade and begin to malfunction over time.