
2
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Introduction
Credits ........................................................................... 3
What is This Book All About? .................................... 4
Chapter 1: Genre and Setting
So Y ou Wanna Run a Sci-Fi Campaign? ................... 6
Hard or Soft Sci-Fi? ............................................. 6
What’s the Tech Level? ........................................ 7
So How Do the Pokémon Fit In? ....................... 7
Translating Pokémon Setting Basics to Sci-Fi .......... 8
Poké Balls  .............................................................. 8
The PC Storage System ........................................ 10
Pokémon Centers ................................................. 11
The Pokédex  ......................................................... 11
TMs and HMs ...................................................... 12
Mega Evolution .................................................... 13
Sub-Genres of Sci-Fi ................................................. 14
Space Opera .......................................................... 14
Space Western  ..................................................... 15
Cyberpunk  ........................................................... 16
Transhuman Sci-Fi .............................................. 17
Post-Apocalypse ................................................... 18
Pan-Dimensional ................................................. 19
Hidden Sci-Fi ....................................................... 20
Sci-Fi Pokémon Setting Rules .................................. 21
Gravitational Variations ...................................... 21
Vacuums and Hazardous Environments .......... 24
Pokémon and Space Travel  ................................ 26
Space Training ...................................................... 27
Sci-Fi Pokémon Variants .......................................... 28
Glitch Pokémon ......................................................... 37
Chapter 2: Gear and Technology
Basic Sci-Fi Gear ........................................................ 41
Technology Levels ................................................ 41
New Capture Technologies ....................................... 44
Poké Ball Cases ..................................................... 44
Poké Ball Accessories .......................................... 45
Hard Sci-Fi Poké Ball Alternatives .................... 46
Future Drugs and Medicine ..................................... 47
Weapons and Combat Gear ..................................... 49
Futuristic Firearms .............................................. 49
Melee Armaments ................................................ 49
Single Use Ordnance  .......................................... 50
Armor  .................................................................... 51
Pokébots  ...................................................................... 52
Basic Pokébot Mechanics .................................... 52
New Mechanic: Complexity ............................... 53Sample Pokébots .................................................. 54
Advanced Pokébot Customization .................... 55
Cybernetic Augmentations ...................................... 56
New Mechanic: Augmentation Capacity .......... 56
List of Augmentations ......................................... 57
Drawbacks to Augmentation .............................. 58
Vehicles and Mecha ................................................... 60
Vehicle Construction Guidelines ....................... 60
Vehicle Driving and Combat Rules ................... 63
Vehicles and Large Scale Combat  ..................... 65
Large Scale Battle Example ................................. 66
Advanced Pokétech Systems .................................... 68
Augmented Reality .............................................. 68
Cyberworld Hacking ........................................... 70
Pokémon Dream World ...................................... 73
Chapter 3: Trainer Classes
Sci-Fi Features and Edges ......................................... 76
Playing Non-Human Trainers .................................. 78
Researcher Fields ....................................................... 79
Engineer Research Field ...................................... 80
Engineer Recipes .................................................. 80
Pokébots and Upgrade Parts .............................. 81
Jailbreaker Research Field ................................... 82
Jailbreaker Recipes ............................................... 82
Poké Ball Modifications ...................................... 83
Upgrader Research Field ..................................... 84
Upgrader Recipes ................................................. 84
Glitch Bender ............................................................. 85
Chapter 4: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
How to Use These Settings ....................................... 88
The Age Of Cassiopeia ........................................ 89
Babel  ...................................................................... 101
Creative Destruction ........................................... 118
One-Off Sci-Fi Locations ........................................ 132
The Abyssal Ruins ................................................ 132
Chargestone Cave  ................................................ 134
The Sword of the Vale .......................................... 136
Pokémon Tower ................................................... 138
Assorted Encounters ............................................... 140
Three (Not So) Blind Mice .................................. 140
The Amazing Mawile Machine .......................... 142
The Crystalline Parasects’ Mysterious Cave ..... 144
The Apparatus ...................................................... 146
The Obligatory Mechanical Monstrosity .......... 151
ChangelogTable of Contents
3
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
 3 Introduction
Do Porygon Dream of Mareep?
Ver. 1.02
PTU System Lead
Paradox (aka Doxy)
PTU Design Team
castfromhp, zoofman
Data Manager
KujiUn
Contributors and 
Consultants
DamienLunas, Domovoi, Kain, PlutonisInformation Sourced From
Bulbapedia, PokémonDB
Artwork
Non-original artwork has artist citations. If you see your art here and wish to have it removed, contact castfromhp at the forums below. 
Legalese
Pokémon® is a trademark of Nintendo and does not sponsor, authorize or endorse Pokémon: Tabletop United. Pokémon: Tabletop United is a free use fan distribution by fans, for fans of both tabletop RPGs and Pokémon®.
Contact Us!
Official site and blog: http://pokemontabletop.com/
Zetaboards Pokémon Tabletop forum - http://forums.Pokemontabletop.com/index/
/tg/ - Traditional Games 
#PokemonTabletop on the Rizon IRC network at irc.rizon.net
4 Introduction
What is This Book All About?
Do Porygon Dream of Mareep? is the official Pokémon Tabletop United guidebook for creating and running 
science fiction campaigns or introducing sci-fi elements into any sort of PTU campaign. Not every sci-fi campaign will benefit from using all of the content of this book, but GMs are recommended to pick and choose elements they like to create their own campaign world. Treat the book as a toolkit. 
Chapter 1 outlines several different sub-genres within sci-fi and how they can be used with Pokémon. After 
all, there’s a world of difference between a galaxy-spanning campaign about Spoinks in space and a near future dystopian cyberpunk campaign. Here you’ll find rules for handling situations that don’t often come up in normal PTU play, such as changing gravity levels and traveling through a vacuum. Y ou’ll also find suggestions for how to adapt the Pokémon world to a sci-fi universe, from coming up with new origins for Pokémon to the implications of a sci-fi setting on core Pokémon concepts such as the PC storage system. 
Chapter 2 is the gear and equipment chapter. Everything from new weapons to Poké Ball modifications to 
vehicles and Pokébots can be found here. Included are cybernetic augmentations to Trainers and Pokémon alike, with variant rules depending on whether your game takes a grittier or more idyllic approach to the topic. Be warned – there are a lot of subsystems in this section! While they are included to provide GMs with many options, using them all can quickly make the game too complicated. Y ou are reminded to be judicious in choosing what to include in your campaign. Knowing where to simplify is an important skill. 
Chapter 3 provides brief ideas for non-human Trainers such as those in robot bodies and introduces four 
new Trainer classes! First is the Engineer, who creates and uses robots called Pokébots. Second is the Jailbreaker , a tinkerer who creates add-ons and modifications for Poké Balls. Third is the Upgrader , a 
cybernetics expert who creates augmentations for Trainers and Pokémon. Last is the Glitch Bender, a new supernatural class for characters who’ve been touched by MissingNo. or a glitch in reality itself. 
Chapter 4 offers sample settings and campaign ideas to give new GMs a head start. Each campaign concept 
comes with a detailed setting description, several plot-hooks, and in some cases, optional rules for use in that campaign. Sample locations and encounters are also included for any campaign. 
This pdf has hyperlinks. Any text like that will link you to another part of the document. Click “hyperlinks” 
in blue to get to the cover. These will be used when one part of the book references another for easy access. 
Meet Pory and Mary 
As with the other Pokémon: Tabletop United books, there will be notes on rules clarifications or suggestions for GMs and players. Look for these gray boxes and Pokémon for those notes!
Greetings, reader. I am Pory, the Dreaming Porygon-Z. My comments are intended to elucidate matters of rules and mechanics within this document.
Hi, I’m Mary, the Electric Mareep! I’ll be handling 
anything that’s on the fluffier side of things, from making your setting stand out to building your plot to just plain commentary on this book’s contents. 
Chapter 1
Genre and 
Setting
6
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
So You Wanna Run a Sci-Fi 
Campaign?
Alright, so you’ve sat down and decided your next PTU campaign will be a sci-fi one. Maybe this is your first time with PTU, but you’ve always been fascinated by the idea of incorporating space travel into Pokémon. Maybe you’re a PTA and PTU veteran, but the normal Pokéverse campaigns have begun to get a little dull. Whichever is the case, there are some questions you should ask yourself when deciding how you’re going to build your setting and which sub-genres of sci-fi to draw from.
Hard or Soft Sci-Fi?
Broadly speaking, sci-fi can be put on a spectrum from hard to soft that describes how realistic the developments and advancements in the setting are. 
Hard sci-fi emphasizes scientific accuracy and often 
extrapolates new technologies directly from what’s being developed in the here and now. As a result, hard sci-fi is often near future and prominently features as a plot point the actual construction of new technologies and making them work. Isaac Asimov’s Foundation series, Makoto Yukimura’s anime and manga Planetes , and many of Arthur C. 
Clarke’s books are good examples of hard sci-fi. 
Soft sci-fi plays more fast and loose with new 
technologies, often creating what’s necessary to tell a story about the social implications of technological progress or to just be cool. Star Trek , George 
Orwell’s 1984, and The Matrix are soft sci-fi.
So what does this mean for Pokémon? Well, to start 
with, Pokémon leans very heavily toward soft sci-fi. Turning Pokémon into energy to keep in Poké Balls, the PC storage system, and the presence of psionic powers make it difficult to apply scientific rigor to a Pokémon setting. The story isn’t about why these technologies exist. Instead, the focus is on the Pokémon themselves, and the technology only exists to facilitate the story about Pokémon battling.That doesn’t mean you can’t have a hard sci-fi story about Pokémon, but it does mean if you want to go down that path, you need to spend a lot more time explaining how basic setting pieces work or even eliminate and rewrite them altogether. 
For example, you’ll need an explanation for why 
Pokémon can be stored in Poké Balls. Maybe there’s a genetic trait shared among all Pokémon, starting from Mew, that allows them to be more easily reduced into information and encoded into Poké Balls. In that case, the PC storage system only needs to send information between computers, which is simple. But this explanation brings up a lot of issues. Does this mean Pokémon can be duplicated? Can you corrupt a Pokémon’s code by unleashing a virus on the computer it’s stored in? 
If you want to avoid those kinds of questions, you 
might just decide Poké Balls don’t exist and all Trainers restrain their Pokémon through more conventional methods. Keep in mind, however, this has its own implications when it comes to the practicality of raising large Pokémon like Wailord.
Y ou can check out the hard sci-fi Poké Ball 
alternatives section in Chapter 2 for some ideas on how to handle a Pokémon world without Poké Balls. 
‘What about supernatural trainers in hard sci-fi campaigns?’ you might ask. You can apply the same explanation for psion -
ic Pokémon to trainers. It might be a good idea to limit classes like Channeler, Aura Guardian, and Oracle, however. 
7
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
What’s the Tech Level?
This is a very fundamental question when running 
a sci-fi campaign! Y ou’ll want to ask yourself how far in the future your campaign takes place and how much has changed in that time. 
Some good questions to ask are: 
•	Does space travel exist? How easy and accessible is it to people of all socioeconomic positions? 
•	How advanced are the AI? Are Porygon, for example, near a human level of intelligence, or do they need explicit commands to function? 
•	How far has the Internet advanced? Is free Internet access considered a basic right? Do people regularly ‘dive’ into virtual reality cyberspace, or is the Internet still something people access from phones and computers?
•	What kinds of energy sources does society use? Does everything run on nuclear energy now? Have even more advanced forms of power generation been invented? Is clean energy abundant, or is pollution still a problem? 
•	Do people still need to work? Do simple robots perform all the mundane tasks in civilization, leaving Trainers more free time to pursue their passion of Pokémon battling? 
•	What kinds of weapons have been invented? Is everyone fighting with blasters and lightsabers
 
laser swords or still using kinetic projectiles? From there, you’ll want to consider what the implications are for society. Does privacy still exist at all, or is everything you ever need to know about someone easily available online? 
More specific to the Pokémon universe, however, is 
the question of what kind of a role Pokémon have in a sci-fi society. Who battles Pokémon now? Is everyone a Trainer, or are they thought of as just extraordinarily common pets? What sorts of jobs do Pokémon handle? Where do wild Pokémon live, and how familiar are urban Pokémon with technology and human civilization? 
We’ll be answering these questions and more soon, 
or at least giving you the tools you need to answer them for yourself as you plan your sci-fi campaign!
Education: Technology may be insufficiently specific to denote a trainer’s skill and training in higher 
tech settings if technology and its problems are integral to the plot. Consider splitting the skill into categories such as computers, engineering, and biotech.
So How Do the Pokémon Fit In?
This is the big question, isn’t it? Some Pokémon absolutely fit like a glove when it comes to sci-fi settings. Rotom and Porygon become much more valuable and useful in a cyberpunk campaign, for example, or may even be standard issue maintenance workers and engineers on spacecraft in a space opera campaign. The Researcher class in the core PTU book already points to several Pokémon species having origins as artifi-cially created organisms, developed by researchers and grown in a lab. 
The rest of this chapter will expand on this notion and come up with all sorts of neat ways Pokémon can fit 
into sci-fi settings, beginning with ideas on bringing Pokémon basics like Poké Balls and Pokémon Centers into the future, then an overview of sci-fi sub-genres and how Pokémon can fit in, and finally environmental rules for sci-fi and ideas for Pokémon species variants. In a setting with commonplace space travel, for example, it doesn’t seem likely that all Pokémon species would come from the same planet, and some may even make their natural habitat in the depths of space or in asteroid fields. To go even further, you may want to come up with ways Pokémon have adapted (evolved?) to these new environments as people brought them there, creating variations on Pokémon species. Maybe your setting actually has space Wailords.
8
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Pokémon has a number of distinctive technologies that make the world what it is. For better or for worse, 
fans of the franchise will expect to see these elements in tabletop campaigns, even if the premise is far re-moved from canon, whether it be fantasy or sci-fi. It’s time to think about the technologies and conventions that make Pokémon what they are, because players are more likely to explore and challenge the underpin-nings of these technologies in a sci-fi game than in any other genre of campaign. If this section is too gen-eral and filled with questions instead of answers for you, don’t fret. Chapter 4’s campaign concepts will give more concrete answers.  Treat this section as a brainstorming aid and toolkit. Translating Pokémon Setting Basics to Sci-Fi
Poké Balls
This is the big one. Poké Balls are the single most defining piece of technology for the Pokémon uni-verse, and thus potential players for your campaign will likely be curious about how they’ll be treated differently in a sci-fi universe. Luckily, Poké Balls are already quite sci-fi like objects, so this is simpler to handle than going back the other way and at-tempting to justify Poké Balls in a historical setting.  Either way, it’s good to be prepared with explana-tions about the history of Poké Ball technology and how it works for when your players inevitably ask or look into the matter themselves. This book won’t provide you with one catch-all answer but should give you plenty of ideas to think about on this front. 
Consider the following:
•	Pokémon are themselves in-herently unstable creatures. Canonically when they evolve, they turn into energy forms temporarily as their bodies shift and change. Poké Balls may artificially induce such a state using the same mechanisms that the Pokémon uses naturally, except this state is sustained and kept in stasis in a Poké Ball by the device instead of changing the Pokémon’s material form. 
•	Back in the time of Mew, the first Pokémon, Apricorn plants may have been their primary source of food and in response they developed defensive traits that would allow them to be modified by humans into Pokémon capturing devices in the far future. 
•	Alternatively, Apricorns may not have been the progenitors of Poké Balls at all. This would leave you room to say that Poké Balls weren’t invented until far in the future compared to their wide-spread use in contemporary times for us, look-ing at the tech level of Pokémon canon. 
•	Rather than simply keep Pokémon in stasis, Poké Balls may actually be miniaturization devices, again taking advantage of the inherent mallea-bility of Pokémon. Each Poké Ball would then have a small environment in which the resident 
Pokémon can relax and find sustenance. If you go this route, be sure to keep in mind the implications. Pokémon kept in such a way will still need to be fed, and Trainers will probably want a way to send a message from outside the ball to let their Pokémon know they’re about to call on them. Pokémon may also be upset at being interrupt-ed if they aren’t given warning 
and are tossed out while sleeping or playing. 
•	What does a Poké Ball do that prevents other Poké Balls from working on the same Pokémon? Are Poké Balls all programmed to check for ownership? Or does the capture process change a Pokémon?
•	What happens when a Poké Ball is broken in your setting? Does it simply fail to maintain the Pokémon’s energy form and thus release it 
art by BionicleGahlok at
 http://bioniclegahlok.deviantart.com/
9
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
when the device breaks? Or does the energy 
conversion process work in such a way that breaking the Poké Ball irreversibly would kill the Pokémon contained inside instead? 
•	Did Poké Balls develop first, or did other devices that allowed matter to be converted to energy and kept in a portable state come first? Maybe it was a challenge for scientists to find a way to apply this process to sentient life without killing it. This could make for a bit of gruesome histo-
ry for the PCs to dig up, or maybe the process 
is still ongoing and the campaign doesn’t have 
working Poké Balls - yet. Will the players stand 
by and watch this happen so they can gain from 
the convenience of this technology, or will they 
intervene and stop the experiments, even if it 
means they will never get Poké Balls? 
•	Do Poké Balls work in conjunction with Pokémon Center technology? Again going with 
the idea of Poké Balls reducing Pokémon to a more malleable energy state, it’s possible it becomes easier to heal Pokémons’ injuries when they are kept inside of Poké Balls. 
•	Why are humans not captured by Poké Balls? This is less applicable of a question if Poké Balls work by the principle of Pokémon malleability, but if other energy conversion technology also exists, then the question arises of whether or not 
it works on humans as well as inanimate objects. 
Perhaps this is where the real experimentation is 
happening now...
art by Rune at http://seiga.nicovideo.jp/user/illust/2495416These Poké Balls are so 
cute it feels like a crime not to include more pictures of them. 

10
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
The PC Storage System
This is what makes it feasible to ‘catch em all’ in 
the Pokémon universe. The sheer logistical issues behind storing and transporting dozens or even hundreds of Pokémon in Poké Balls would stop all but the most well-connected and resourceful Train-ers from ever considering attempting to catch more than a handful of Pokémon otherwise. 
So what exactly is the PC Storage System and how 
does it work? 
There is a vast network that connects the Pokémon 
Centers of the region, or the world, or the solar sys-tem, or even the galaxy. This network can transport Pokémon to any Pokémon Center on the network for trainers to pick up and otherwise keeps them stored safely until they are needed. 
The first question you’ll want to ask yourself when 
constructing your setting is ‘who controls the net-work?’ . Is it a government that spans the entire star system? Has Silph Co. gone galactic and also taken it upon itself to construct a network for Trainers to easily store and transport their Pokémon? 
Maybe it’s actually a volunteer effort run by a variety 
of organizations spread throughout a solar system. After all, it’s hard for one entity to control space on the scale of what many sci-fi settings might offer. And even in campaigns restricted to a single city, such as a cyberpunk campaign might be, it’s possible for there to be multiple competing PC storage net-works with their own advantages and disadvantages. Silph Co. might guarantee reliability, but they deliver all their Poké Balls between cities through physical couriers, which can take several days between cities when the network is busy, whereas Devon Corp delivers Poké Balls instantly through an advanced energy transfer system, but Team Rocket attacks are much more likely to bring down the infrastructure to this system than to stop Silph’s couriers.  Speaking of which, how does the PC Storage System deliver Pokémon? And where does it keep them in the meantime? 
Physical storage is the simplest method, just a room 
in each Pokémon  Center where all the Poké Balls at that location are stored. From there, physical delivery is also simple, either by vehicles or courier Pokémon. Physical transportation is a lot more com-plicated though if it 
Electronic storage is also an option if the way Poké 
Ball technology functions in your universe allows for mass electronic storage of Pokémon. This also simplifies the idea of digital delivery, as the energy or information of a Pokémon can be sent to another Pokémon Center with ease. 
Also consider what happens when a Trainer carries 
more than 6 Pokémon at a time or has 6 and then captures a 7th. Maybe your setting doesn’t enforce the limit. If it does, perhaps a Trainer’s Pokédex sends a signal to electronically beam away a Poké Ball. Alternatively, a lock could engage on the last Poké Ball, preventing that Pokémon from being used.
art by Ken Sugimori
11
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Pokémon Centers
‘We hope to see you again!’ seems like an awfully 
morbid thing to say to someone leaving a medical establishment. Then again, Pokémon Centers work miracles compared to how healthcare works in real life. Treatment is always free, all but the most griev-ious injuries can be healed in under a day, and they are easily available in any civilized place, providing services in addition to medical treatment, such as 
facilitating Pokémon trades.
Y ou may wish to challenge, or at least explore and 
explain, some of these basic tenets and assumptions when it comes to Pokémon Centers. However, in a sci-fi setting, you often have more than enough to justify having Pokémon Centers work in the idyllic manner they’re presented in the Pokémon canon. 
How does Pokémon Center healing work? Are 
Pokémon repaired as they are in their Poké Balls by machines that directly reconstitute their energy forms? Or is medical treatment simply so advanced in the future that traditional means of treating wounds can give the results that Pokémon Centers are so famed for and at little to no cost?  And what about the other main function of Pokémon Centers that remains so often unexplored? Pokémon trades, of course. Pokémon Centers pro-vide a valuable service by connecting Trainers to each other all over the world, or all over the galaxy, as it may be. With the level of interconnectivity present in most far future civilization concepts, it’s easy to believe that Trainers can easily search for the Pokémon trades they’re looking for, and a Pokémon Center provides an easy nexus point and middleman for those trades. 
If you think about it though, trades are hardly very 
simple. If one could simply swap two Poké Balls, then Pokémon theft would be incredibly easy and commonplace. There has to be some way of verify-ing the trade, which leads us into...
The Pokédex 
Far more than merely an encyclopedia on all things Pokémon, the Pokédex is also a Trainer’s identifica-tion, allowing them to register their Pokémon under their name. The information-providing function of a Pokédex is easy to explain in a sci-fi society. We’re already seeing phones and cameras that can do face recognition and pull up information for a user from the camera’s display almost instantaneously. A Poké-dex would be simply the natural evolution of this in a more advanced civilization. 
As for the rest, it makes sense to say that every 
Pokémon capture a Trainer makes is registered in their Pokédex, and when trading Pokémon, a ma-chine or attendant at a Pokémon Center is required to verify the identity of the Trainer as well as affirm that the trade is being made in good faith and not under coercion. 
Y ou may consider in your setting whether the 
Pokédex is still a handheld device, rather than an AI residing in a cybernetic implant, perhaps a bionic eye or some other form of ocular implant. 
art by Ry-Spirit at http://ry-spirit.deviantart.com/
12
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
TMs and HMs
The core PTU book already provides a bit of insight 
into how a GM can make TMs fit into their settings. It doesn’t make much sense to tread old ground, so this book will only briefly note that TMs can be treated as CDs that run a certain program when used in a TM Case with a Pokémon, or they can also be syringes that induce a Pokémon to grow new organs or adapt biologically in a way that allows them to use a new Move. 
That out of the way, a number of new concepts be-
come available with the higher tech levels of a sci-fi campaign. •	TMs can be licenses to access virtual reality worlds that put a Pokémon through a variety of simulated scenarios that gradually teach them to perform a new Move. 
•	In settings where cybernetic augmentations feature prominently, TMs can in themselves be augmentations. This can have very interesting implications for a setting. 
•	TMs could be processes that perform a limited evolution-esque change on a Pokémon. If your setting uses the idea that many Pokémon-centric technologies rely upon their unstable and mal-leable nature, then this approach is a very fitting one and consistent with the overall theme. This could be done through gene therapy, exposure to special types of radiation similar to evolution stones, or even done through special Poké Balls which modify the Pokémon stored in them. 
Consider what makes a TM a limited one-time use item. When we’re currently living in an age where software is often licensed, not owned, and people pay for streamed TV shows, it’s easy to imagine streaming TM programs or even to require TMs be sold and applied at official vendors only.
It’s also really easy to go too grimdark and unfun with this if you make all cyberaugs come with nasty side-effects. Moderation!
art by kuuneru at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=434505
...On the other hand, this doesn’t look too fun either. Remember, kids! It’s great to make using TMs feel like a 
more complicated choice, but you don’t want to end up too edgy and try-hard either! 

13
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Mega Evolution
Mega Evolution is an interesting topic in a sci-fi setting due to how it’s usually attributed more of a mystical 
aspect in the source material. However, this doesn’t mean it’s impossible to use Mega Evolution in a hardcore sci-fi setting! Here are some ideas to help you get started. 
Enhanced Elemental Stones: Mega Stones could be similar to Fire Stones, Water Stones, etc, except that the 
transformation they trigger is more less stable than a normal evolution. The Mega Ring in this arrangement could be a device that ‘activates’ the evolution factor in the Mega Stone and also keeps it under control. Glitch Technology: In campaigns where Glitch phenomena are in play, one could easily play off Mega 
Evolution as being a spin-off of these phenomena. They could be a way of applying controlled glitches to a 
Pokémon without long-term damage being done to them. Advanced Nanomachines: When in doubt, blame nanomachines. In many sci-fi settings, nanomachines are a go-to explanation for anything that seems supernatural or magical in nature. Mega Evolution is no exception, and similar to the Elemental Stone idea, the Mega Ring can be used to control the nanomachines injected into a Pokémon. 
art by Pure Boy at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=2131077
14
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Remember the questions about hard vs soft sci-fi and the tech level of your setting? Keep those in mind, 
because this section will build on those basic ideas and expand into several common categories of sci-fi that could help you put together the type of campaign you want. Sub-Genres of Sci-Fi
Space Opera
This is probably what most people think when they think of sci-fi. There are big honking spaceships with big honking lasers, and by god they are going to blow each other up in a spectacular fashion. Space opera is of course characterized firstly by ubiquitous space travel and secondly by its epic scale. Military conflicts and political intrigue span entire galaxies, the undiscovered corners of space are always filled with exotic and awe-inspiring locales and the heroes tend to be larger than life. 
Space opera tends to sit on the softer side of the sci-
fi spectrum, and the tech level for the genre is quite high. The basic tenet of the genre relies on faster than light travel, considered impossible by our cur -
rent understanding of physics. Spaceships are sturdy and protected by energy shields that render most mundane dangers of space irrelevant.
In a lot of space opera works, such as Star Trek , the 
technology exists only to further the story, and any 
explanations given are largely technobabble. Many space opera works also focus on military conflict, where advanced weapons and vehicles such as laser swords and mecha exist to make the battles cooler.
Key Technologies: Faster than light space travel, 
advanced military technologies, planetary colonization and terraforming
Main Themes: Adventure and Discovery, Grand 
Scale, High Action, Epic Heroism
Examples: Star Wars, Star Trek, Battlestar Galactica, 
Legend of Galactic Heroes, A Fire Upon the Deep, The Hyperion Cantos, Crest of the Stars, Gundam, Mass EffectHow Do Pokémon Fit In? Pokémon easily fit into the adventure and explora-tion paradigm of space opera, providing interesting and exciting fauna to discover on new planets as the characters travel the galaxy. Alien Pokémon species such as Elgyem could provide an antagonist in the form of an alien empire fighting against humanity.
How to Handle...
•	Poké Balls:  Energy to matter conversion is a very common technology in space opera, often used to synthesize food on space craft. Poké Balls could have easily arisen from this tech-nology, usable on any object or lifeform. Hu-mans may be given an implant chip at birth that renders them immune to the Poké Ball’s energy conversion process. 
•	The PC Storage System: With the existence of faster than light travel and the high tech levels of most space opera, it’s easy to say Pokémon can be beamed to a Trainer from across the galaxy.
•	Pokémon Centers: Advanced energy conversion technology can heal a Pokémon’s directly while they are in their Poké Ball. Even traditional medical methods have become highly advanced.
•	TMs and HMs: Medical technology in space opera works tends to be rather humane, so TMs likely take the form of CDs or virtual reality sims for Pokémon.
As a GM How Should I Prepare? Star charts and maps of your galactic civilization would help your players take in the epic scope of a space opera campaign. Prepare alien planets in a way that you can toss them into any given star system the players happen to choose to visit. Familiarize yourself with the vehicle combat rules in Chapter 2!
15
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Space Western 
Westerns are all about the frontier and life at the 
fringes. What does this mean for a space western? These stories take place in the colonies on the edge of the galactic empire rather than at the heart of it. Here, the miracles of advanced technology that make life so easy for most galactic cities aren’t quite present, and space travel is often a dangerous and risky affair rather than taken for granted. 
The tech level of a space western is often a schizo-
phrenic blend of throw-back western icons and space travel technology in its infancy. Y our run-of-the-mill space pirate wields a classic six-shooter and pilots a clunker of a ship, barely held together by his spunky mechanic sidekick. The small ship, cobbled together from spare parts and their raiding spoils, has no shields to defend its hull, and there are crudely mounted flak cannons rather than impres-sively shiny energy weapons. And when they touch down on a small moon colony, their goal might as often be a train robbery as it is hunting a bounty. 
Compared to the grand scale of space opera works, 
space westerns often have more contained settings. Rather than a galactic empire, civilization may span a single solar system. Faster than light travel almost certainly doesn’t exist, and travel between planets can take days or weeks of dangerous navigation. 
Key Technologies: Basic space travel, western 
throwback weapons and technology
Main Themes: Taming the Lawless Frontier, Pulpy 
Action, Stylish Anachronisms 
Examples: Cowboy Bebop, Firefly, Outlaw Star
How Do Pokémon Fit In? 
A lot of western staples can fit in here. Trainers rid-
ing Rapidashes to steal a herd of Miltank, for exam-ple. Animal husbandry has always been important to westerns, and Pokémon can add an extra dimen-
sion for space westerns.  How to Handle...
•	Poké Balls:  These may not even exist! If they do, they likely take the form of crude Apricorn Balls, combined with a basic technology that takes advantage of the instability of Pokémon to min-iaturize them and sustain the miniaturization in the ball. Players will have to think about keeping their Pokémon fed even in their Poké Balls, and if Poké Balls don’t exist, keeping large Pokémon on a small spacecraft may be tricky. 
•	The PC Storage System: With the lower tech levels of a space western, you’re likely looking at physical couriers, unconnected to any real authority. Most savvy space-faring Trainers store 
their Pokémon on their ship themselves, and the 
limit of 6 per Trainer may not even be enforced.
•	Pokémon Centers: Tough luck here. It’s all 
traditional medical care, if you can find a doctor at all. If you’re lucky, maybe you’ll raid a rich imperial ship and steal some of its medicines. 
•	TMs and HMs: Syringe TMs or drugs that send a Pokémon on a vision quest would both be appropriate to the anachronistic tech level of a space western setting. 
As a GM How Should I Prepare? Plan out each world in your solar system, creating a clear delineation between the ‘civilized’ core worlds of your space empire and the fringe frontier worlds the players will be most familiar with. Again, the vehicle combat rules will come in handy. 
art by raemz at http://raemz.wordpress.com/
16
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Cyberpunk 
Now we move away from the spaceships and orbital 
colonies and move back to urban, terrestrial life. Cyberpunk is a sci-fi genre that focuses on develop-ments with the internet, AI, and cybernetic augmen-tations. This is the setting where your Porygons and Rotoms run wild, aiding skilled hackers as they infil-trate the networks of powerful megacorporations to steal their secrets and sell them on the black market. 
And at the end of the day, all of this just manages 
to make enough money to grab a bite to eat, keep a roof over their heads, and pay for the medical treatment and equipment maintenance for their next ‘run’ on a corp or other big target. 
Cyberpunk is gritty and like space westerns, tends 
to focus on the fringe of society. Its settings tend toward the dystopic, with massive gaps between rich and poor and corporations that have taken the place of government in organizing society. The punk aesthetic, East Asian influences, neon lights, and cramped, multi-level cities characterize the feel of cyberpunk. 
The tech level of a cyberpunk city is near future and 
tends toward hard sci-fi. Looking at contemporary society, it’s easy to see where the extrapolations were made to cyberpunk tech. Internet access is more ubiquitous in cyberpunk, and hacking and surfing the web often involves ‘diving’ into a virtual reality world. Advancements in current prosthetics could develop into the cybernetic augmentations common to cyberpunk. And concerns about corporate influ-ence in everyday life could be extrapolated into the megacorps of cyberpunk lore. 
Key Technologies: Cybernetic Augmentations, 
Virtual Reality Internet, Bioengineering, Artificial 
Intelligence 
Main Themes: Misery, Marginalization and Disen-
franchisement, Corporate Domination, Technology Causing Loss of Humanity, Ethics of Technological 
AdvancementExamples: Ghost in the Shell, Neuromancer, Snow 
Crash, Deus Ex, Blade Runner, Serial Experiments Lain, AKIRA
How Do Pokémon Fit In? 
Pokémon are the perfect tools for runners, merce-naries who break into corporations to steal secrets and take on other risky and dangerous jobs. Silph, Devon, and other corporations provide an easy base to develop a society of megacorps. Artificial Pokémon such as Porygon also fit well into a cyber -
punk world, raising bioethics concerns. 
How to Handle...
•	Poké Balls: Poké Balls are an experimental technology that uses the unique trait of a Pokémon’s instability to convert it into energy. 
•	The PC Storage System: Cyberpunk places a heavy emphasis on digital networks and interconnectivity. Making the storage system capable of transmitting Pokémon digitally is not only in theme but also provides opportunities for the system to be infiltrated by hackers. 
•	Pokémon Centers: Cyberpunk settings tend to be quite lethal, and getting seriously injured is dangerous and requires time to recover from. Pokémon Centers might end up neither free nor convenient in such a world, especially to the disenfranchised lower class runner who embodies the quintessential cyberpunk hero.
•	TMs and HMs: TMs should have a bit of an edge to them in a cyberpunk world, whether they’re cybernetics that require invasive surgery, syringes filled with the questionable products of contemporary biotechnology, or sims that jack directly into a Pokémon’s brain, raising ethical concerns about their use and other applications of the technology. 
As a GM How Should I Prepare? Figure out what the major megacorps are, what areas of technology they specialize in, and who they have rivalries with. Get familiar with the cybernetics rules in Chapter 2 and the Upgrader class in Chapter 3, as they’re very likely to come into use. 
17
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Transhuman Sci-Fi
If cyberpunk takes a look at the ugly and downtrod-
den side of technological development, transhuman sci-fi shows off the miraculous wonders of bioengi-neering, advanced AI, and nanotechnology, all used to push humanity past its limits, hence the term ‘transhuman’ . This is not to say transhuman sci-fi is all sunshines and rainbows, however. In fact, a trans-human setting is amazing at conveying horror in 
sci-fi, whether it be through rogue superintelligent 
AI, body horror born from biotech experiments, or mind uploads gone wrong. Cyberpunk itself plays heavily with transhuman themes, for example, but is more near future than transhuman sci-fi.
Much of transhuman sci-fi revolves around a con-
cept called the technological singularity. The idea is that technological progress proceeds exponentially, not linearly, meaning as society creates advanced technology, it enables the creation of ever more advanced technology. Eventually, this reaches a point, usually in the genre due to the development of mental augmentation or self-improving AI, where technological progress hits a singularity and an enormous amount of societal transformation hap-pens all at once due to a flood of developments. 
A common result of this, especially if hyperintelli-
gent AI exist, is that humanity may suddenly have access to all sorts of technology it doesn’t fully understand. Campaigns involving transhuman themes often feature the main characters working in the employ of AI or fighting against them. In more utopian visions of transhuman futures, resource scarcity has been eliminated as far as basic needs go, and the economy works on a principle of reputation as a currency. Hedonism is rife as people upload their minds into digital containers and abandon the 
physical world.
The result of most transhuman sci-fi is clearly 
fantastical and well within the realm of soft sci-fi, though some examples exist of attempts to write 
more grounded versions of a transhuman future. Key Technologies: Super Advanced AI, Nanotech-
nology, Mind Uploads, Bioengineering, Androids
Main Themes: Surpassing Humanity’s Limits, Play-
ing God, Technology Growing Out of Control
Examples: Accelerando, Singularity Sky, The Culture 
series, I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream
How Do Pokémon Fit In? 
Because of the utopian nature of most transhuman settings, it’s much more plausible for Pokémon bat-tling to become a sustainable hobby. This could eas-ily explain why a Pokémon League exists and how such ruthless competitive battling can be made safe. On the side of transhuman horror, MissingNo can tie in very, very well to many transhuman themes.
How to Handle...
•	Poké Balls: Poké Balls could be an ill-understood product of the technological singularity, an invention of hyperintelligent AI that most people don’t really understand. 
•	The PC Storage System: Most transhuman settings are completely connected by the Internet, and many goods are digital rather than physical. Go with a system of digitally transferring Pokémon. 
•	Pokémon Centers: In a world of mind uploads and advanced bioengineering, it’s often trivial to repair wounds and cure illnesses.
•	TMs and HMs: TMs might work like learning in the Matrix, directly injecting knowledge into a Pokémon’s brain. 
As a GM How Should I Prepare? Be prepared for anything. Transhuman worlds provide a lot of freedom and crazy technology which makes it hard to predict what the players will do. Prepare mysteries and conspiracies for the players to unravel, and try to create a focal point such as an AI employer to center the players’ attention.
Shout-out to zoof here! His Blessed and Damned splat can help you come up with ideas on how to handle MissingNo in a campaign.

18
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Post-Apocalypse
Something has gone terribly wrong. Maybe the nan-
otechnology from your transhuman campaign has gone out of control, devouring wide swathes of the world. Maybe pollution and environmental destruc-tion finally got the better of the human race. Maybe we just all blew each other up with nukes, or Arceus saw us about to do it and decided to smite us back to a more primitive age. 
Most of civilization’s infrastructure is destroyed, 
and survival is a matter of scavenging among what’s left. Most arable land is going to have been rendered useless by the apocalypse, but those with the skill to make plants grow despite the harsh conditions will find themselves much better off. 
Post-apocalyptic campaigns tend to have a focus on 
survival. Whereas in most campaigns, food, water, and shelter are assumed to be available, characters in a post-apocalyptic world will have to fight for every scrap of food they can get. 
Key Technologies: Whatever’s LeftMain Themes: Survival, Human Folly, Desperation, 
Difficult Choices, Rediscovery
Examples: Metro 2033, The Last of Us, A Canticle for 
Leibowitz, Fallout, Dies the Fire
How Do Pokémon Fit In? 
Pokémon could easily be the results of radiation mutating normal animal and plant species. For many survivors who are not themselves physically fit, Pokémon may be their only means of surviving the post-apocalyptic world. With weapon factories largely gone, Pokémon would become the primary means for fighting as well. 
How to Handle...
•	Poké Balls: The explanation for Poké Balls can be chosen from whatever you want, but it’s likely they will have to be scavenged and can’t be manufactured anymore. Those who have the skill to turn Apricorns into usable balls may be highly valued in this world. 
•	The PC Storage System: What storage system? Limits on Pokémon team size likely don’t exist, but keeping large Pokémon or many Pokémon fed can easily become a liability.
•	Pokémon Centers: An intact Pokémon Center would be the centerpiece of a post-apocalyptic community, and everyone living around it would do all they can to ensure it has power and is well-maintained. Otherwise, they would be scavenging for scarce medical supplies.
•	TMs and HMs: TMs are also a lost technology and very rare and valuable. However they work, they are likely worth whatever drawbacks might exist for them in your setting.  
As a GM How Should I Prepare? Identify what the scarce and important resources are around the areas the players are starting in. Decide whether they’ve been discovered, who controls them if anyone at all, and what obstacles stand in the way of reaching them. Characters’ basic needs will guide them, and preparing in this way will cover most of the early campaign. 
art by zenmai hizu at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=74044
19
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Pan-Dimensional
Whereas it’s very clear that something has gone 
wrong in an apocalyptic scenario, here, it’s a lit-tle more subtle. Everything is slightly...off . Y ou’re 
sure you heard your high school Pokémon Biology teacher died in an unfortunate accident a few years back, yet here he is in front of you, and he’s not even a teacher. A quick conversation reveals he’s been an aspiring gym trainer all his life. And this is only the beginning, with differences mounting as you frown and continue to explore your once-familiar city. It’s all too clear at the end of the day that you’ve some-how found yourself in an alternate version of reality.
Sci-fi abounds with stories about traveling to un-
familiar dimensions or carousing through time as well. Interdimensional travel of all forms is common in sci-fi, and this element can be added to sci-fi cam-paigns that are mainly set in one of the other genres.
Key Technologies: Interdimensional Travel or Time 
Travel Devices
Main Themes: Surrealism, Psychological Horror, 
Finding Home
Examples: Sliders, Primer, Steins;Gate, Doctor Who, 
The One, Fringe
How Do Pokémon Fit In? 
Pokémon may well only exist in these alternate universes. Nearly every Pokémon fan has pondered to themselves at one point or another whether they’ d be willing to give up the life they have now to live in the Pokémon universe. 
Other times, all the universes involved may have 
Pokémon, but certain species, particularly Unown or Legendary Pokémon that deal with other dimen-sions, may have a hand in transporting Trainers and their Pokémon out of their home dimensions.
Time travel stories can easily involve Celebi or 
Dialga, the time traveling Pokémon. How to Handle...•	All Pokémon Technology: Most stories about interdimensional travel take place in a modern setting, so use whatever you feel is appropriate there as the technology itself won’t likely be scrutinized. However, if time travel is involved or if Pokémon only exist in an alternate dimension, you may consider using one of the specific explanations.
As a GM How Should I Prepare? 
Running this type of campaign as a GM is both 
a blessing and a curse. On the one hand, if the 
means of jumping between dimensions is esoteric and poorly understood, it becomes easy for you to dictate and plan for where the players end up with each jump or attempt to travel in time. 
Once the players develop a better understanding 
of the technology in character, however, the possibilities for what they can do increase exponentially, and you may find yourself buried under the work of figuring out what you’ll do if the players jump to X dimension vs Y dimension. 
For this reason, it’s important to establish for 
yourself what the limits to the interdimensional travel technology are and what organizations and individuals might exist that cause the players to think twice about jumping dimensions on a whim. 
Again here, the Blessed and Damned book might provide some ideas for handling Celebi and Dialga in time travel stories!
art by ribero at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1324419
20
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Hidden Sci-Fi
This is not really a sci-fi sub-genre per se so much 
as a category about the consequences sci-fi tech in a mundane setting. Civilization can be changed nearly overnight by the discovery of advanced alien technology, perhaps left in an ancient ruin floating in space, crashed onto Earth in a spaceship, or even discovered as part of a progenitor civilization pre-ceding human life on Earth. Maybe your campaign 
takes place centuries after your post-apocalypse 
campaign inspired by the previous page, and pres-ent day society is just now discovering a cache of now-ancient technology from before the apocalypse. 
Or maybe you just want to have a single cool sci-fi 
locale like a city in the sky or under the depths of the ocean in your otherwise non-sci-fi campaign. 
Alternatively, the sci-fi elements are hidden from 
most of society, and there are powers going forth looking for scraps of alien technology before anyone else can reach them and while ensuring the public at large doesn’t discover the existence of aliens. 
Either way these locations and discoveries could be 
of tremendous influence, and it’s likely that powerful organizations such as governments and corporations will try to take control of them. A common setup is to have PCs working for these organizations, toiling to unlock their secrets and keep them out of the hands of enemies. 
Key Technologies: Ancient Inscrutable TechnologyMain Themes: Discovery, Secrecy, Conspiracy  Examples: Stargate, X-COM, Torchwood, X Files
How Do Pokémon Fit In? 
Pokémon may very well be the discovery itself, with 
species landing on Earth from outer space. Anything from Poké Balls themselves to evolution stones to entire new species could be the subject of inquiry 
and discovery in these types of campaigns. How to Handle...
•	Poké Balls: A common occurrence with this type of sci-fi is that modern civilization makes use of ancient technology in ways that were not expected or intended by their original creators. Say Poké Balls were originally invented specifically to curb Mew populations in the ancient past. Since then, Pokémon of all sorts evolved and propagated from Mew, each of them retaining the trait that makes Poké Balls 
work on them. The technology is mysterious 
and inscrutable, and what may have started as a simple device for pest control has developed into a world-changing phenomenon.  
•	The PC Storage System: This may be the 
remnants of an ancient computer network. 
Chances are, unless scientists have managed to reverse-engineer it, it isn’t available to the general public. Perhaps the players have taken the role of government operatives dealing with this rediscovered though, and as a result they have access to this network.  
•	Pokémon Centers: Ill-understood medical devices from the ancient past may give miraculous benefits...for now. Who knows what sort of side-effects may make themselves known in the future? 
•	TMs and HMs: TMs could work like ancient repositories of knowledge, with just enough juice left to pump information directly into one recipient’s brain.  
As a GM How Should I Prepare? Moreso than many others, campaigns centered around the discovery of powerful alien technologies demand the involvement of powers like governments and corporations. Figure out who has a stake in the new discoveries and how they will be acting on their goals. 
If you’re preparing singular sci-fi locations for a 
non-scif-fi campaign, then you should think about why no one else has discovered the location yet and what the implications will be if the public learns about the discovery. 
21
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Gravitational Variations
Chances are, if you’re running a campaign featuring space travel, not all of the planets and habitable locales 
will have the same level of gravity as the Earth. There’s also the little issue of zero-gravity in open space. So how does this work mechanically with all the different body types of Pokémon? 
Rate the gravitational force of a location on a scale from 
0 to 5. 
•	0: Zero gravity, usually reserved for spacecraft and the vacuum of space in general, but can be artificial.
•	1: Very low gravity but still noticeable. Use this for locations like the moon or very large asteroids. 
•	2: Low gravity. Suitable for planets such as Mars which are smaller than Earth but larger than the moon.
•	3: Earth-like gravity. Most Pokémon and humans will be adapted to live in environments like this. 
•	4. Higher than Earth gravity. Tolerable for most humans and Pokémon, though uncomfortable. 
•	5. Very high gravity. This is the level of gravity simulated by the Move Gravity.
Higher levels of gravity than 5 are those generally not survivable by most Pokémon and humans. Changed Move: Gravity Instead of its usual effect, when the battlefield is Warped, it is treated as if it were a Gravity 5 environment. New Capability: Home GravityAll humans and Pokémon have this capability, rated on 
the scale depending on what their home gravity level is. For most humans and Pokémon, this value is 3, which means they’re adapted to Earth-like gravity. 
For each step the environment differs from your Home 
Gravity value, take a -2 penalty to your Athletics and Acrobatics rolls. 
For each step the environment is higher than your 
Home Gravity value, make the following changes: •	Decrease your evasion by 1. 
•	Decrease all movement speeds by 1, to a minimum of 1.
•	Decrease your high and low jump values by 50%. 
•	Decrease your effective Power capability by 1.
•	If the environment is higher by at least 2 steps, you may not use Levitate or Sky speeds. 
For each step the environment is lower than your Home Gravity value, make the following changes:•	Increase your high and low jump values by 50%.
•	Increase your effective Power capability by 1. Sci-Fi Pokémon Setting Rules
You might be tempted to think that lower gravity will aid in acrobatics. Incorrect! Your body must grow accustomed to operating in a different level of gravity, which requires training and time. Youmay jump further andhigher, but your precision will suffer.

22
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
New Capability: Gravitic Tolerance
This capability represents either a natural ability to function in other gravity levels or specialized training 
to do so. There are, of course, natural limits to this. A human body is designed to function in a specific level of gravity, and while you may be able to grow used to a higher or lower gravity to some degree, it is simply impossible to adjust well to gravity that is too different from the norm. 
Gravitic Tolerance is represented as a range of gravity values which you can treat as your Home Gravity for 
the purposes of evasion and skill penalties only. Y our sheer ability to jump, lift, or run remains unaffected. 
For example, in your setting, you might decide Clefairy actually does originally come from the Moon. It 
has Gravitic Tolerance 1-3 and Home Gravity 3. Why not Home Gravity 1? Well, Gravitic Tolerance doesn’t do anything to offset changes in Power, movement, or jumping, and Clefairy’s Pokédex values assume its 
normal functioning on Earth. 
Movement in Zero Gravity 
Moving around when there’s no gravity is pretty tricky. If you’re free floating, you’re likely out of luck, and 
even if you’re not, you have to be careful with how you push off of surfaces lest you jet off into oblivion. 
Pokémon and Trainers with Levitate, Swim, and Teleporter capabilities can use them as normal. Sky speeds 
can be used normally as long as there is an atmosphere around. If it is a vacuum, then Sky speeds no longer function. A Pokémon or Trainer who is moving along any surface with handles or ledges to hold onto can 
move at half of their Overland speed. 
If you push off of a surface, then you continue moving each round unless you hit another object or use a 
movement capability to stop yourself. The speed you travel each round is equal to the higher of your high or long jump. 
New Capability: Free Floating
Free Floating is a Movement Capability and always has a numerical value. Free Floating functions just like a 
Sky speed but only works in zero gravity environments. 
art by itsburdy at http://birdychuart.tumblr.com/ 
23
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Assigning Pokémon Gravity-Related Capabilities
First of all, for the sake of simplicity, assume the values in the Pokédex correspond to the Pokémon’s 
capabilities when in their Home Gravity, not necessarily in Gravity 3. 
In general, you should be careful ever assigning a Pokémon a Home Gravity value other than 3 if your 
campaign is largely going to take place on Earth. In a campaign where extraterrestrial exploration is common and the characters will just as often be on a Gravity 1 or 5 world as an Earth-like world, you can be a bit more free with assigning values. 
Ultimately, it’s up to you depending on how you want to spread out your Pokémon through your universe, 
and there will be a more comprehensive section on populating a star system with Pokémon at the end of the environmental rules section. Here are a few ideas to start. 
Alien PokémonThe Clefairy line, the Elgyem line, the Staryu line, Genesect, Jirachi, Deoxys, and Lunatone and Solrock all 
possibly have extraterrestrial origins, based on their Pokédex entries and lore. Of course, if there were any Pokémon you’ d decide are native to planets other than Earth in your setting, these would be the go-tos. Giving them Gravitic Tolerance would make sense, perhaps even for living in zero gravity. Y ou may even decide the Clefairy line has the Free Floating capability at a value like 4.
Palkia, Dialga, Giratina, and Unown are all known to reside in other dimensions, meaning they could also 
be easily adaptable as well. Depending on your setting, this may apply to Legendary Pokémon in general.
Machine-like PokémonMany machine-like Pokémon will be agnostic to changes in the level of gravity as far as their coordination 
goes, and these Pokémon would likely have a wide range for Gravitic Tolerance. 
The Beldum line, the Voltorb line, the Magnemite line, the Porygon line, the Klink line, and Rotom all 
generally fall into this category. These Pokémon are also prime candidates for species who developed outside of Earth’s atmosphere in your setting, perhaps growing up around the cast off remains of  abandoned space stations. 
Amorphous PokémonMost Pokémon with the Amorphous capability have jelly-like bodies that aren’t as hindered by the effects of 
higher gravity. Not only are these Pokémon good candidates for Gravitic Tolerance capabilities that tend to-ward the higher end of the spectrum, they also are great choices to populate a planet in a solar system that’s larger and thus has higher gravity. While other planets may see more fish-like Pokémon in their waters, the Shellos or Frillish lines might be native to a Gravity 5 world and thus have a corresponding Home Gravity to match. 
24
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Vacuums and Hazardous Environments
Space is a vast and empty expanse, largely filled with nothing. All lack of breathable air aside, the simple 
pressure difference from the lack of an atmosphere is enough to do in most living creatures in the vacuum of space. Other times, you’ll just wish there wasn’t an atmosphere at all, like when you step foot into the toxic fog of Venus or another planet with a decidedly noxious surface. Other common sci-fi hazards include the threat of strong radiation after technological accidents or due to lack of a protective atmosphere. 
Wandering into these situations without equipment such as a spacesuit is an incredibly dangerous 
proposition. Death comes quickly and without the possibility of much recourse other than getting inside. 
Vacuum Exposure Rules
Each round that a Trainer or Pokémon spends in a vacuum causes them to accrue one injury. Upon reen-tering an atmosphere, you may recover up to two of these injuries, but you always sustain at least one injury for being exposed to a vacuum. GMs who have opted not to use PTU’s injury rules may call for a loss of 10% of a Trainer or Pokémon’s maximum Hit Points in place of the injury. 
New Capabilities: Vacuum Tolerance and Vacuum ImmunitySome Pokémon simply have a higher tolerance for vacuums than others, and some aren’t affected at all. 
Note that this refers to the ability to withstand the pressure difference; breathing may still be an issue unless they do not need to breathe or have somehow oxygenated their blood in advance . 
The Vacuum Tolerance capability slows down the rate of injury gain, causing the Pokémon with the capability to gain injuries from vacuum exposure once every 5 minutes instead of one every round. 
The Vacuum Immunity capability prevents all injuries from vacuum exposure. Most rocky or metallic Pokémon will have one capability or the other, with metallic Pokémon being more 
likely to have Vacuum Immunity rather than merely Vacuum Tolerance. Y ou may also choose to give one or the other of these capabilities to some of the extraterrestrial Pokémon from the list for gravity-based capabilities. Here are some recommendations for how to assign these capabilities.
Vacuum Tolerance: Clefairy line, Geodude line, Onix line, Rhyhorn line, Ditto line, Sudowoodo, Unown, Forretress, Shuckle, Skarmory, Larvitar line, Nosepass, Mawile, Aron line, Baltoy line, Regirock, Regice, Registeel, Cranidos line, Shieldon line, Drifloon line, Heatran, Regigigas, Roggenrola line, Solosis line, Frillish line, Ferroseed line, Elgyem line, Litwick line, Bergmite 
line.
Vacuum Immunity: Magnemite line, Grimer line, Gastly line, Voltorb line, Staryu line, Porygon line, Mewtwo, Mew, Misdreavus, 
Steelix, Shedinja, Sableye, Lunatone, Solrock, Shuppet line, Duskull line, Beldum line, Jirachi, Deoxys, Bronzor line, Froslass, Probopass, Rotom, Dialga, Palkia, Giratina, Arceus, Y amask line, Trubbish line, Klink line, Golett line, Genesect, Honedge line, 
Klefki. Realistically, toxins differ enough in effect, and 
radiation acts slowly enough that modeling all of these under one effect is inaccurate. However, for the sake of simplicity, they all function by these same rules. 

25
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Noxious Atmosphere Rules
Not all toxic atmospheres are created equal. Whether your player characters are wandering into a natural 
noxious furnace like the surface of an alien planet or are trapped in a room quickly filling with neurotoxin will matters for how long their projected survival time is. 
Rate the level of toxicity in the environment as either low, medium, or high. Low Toxicity 
These environments aren’t habitable, but the level of pollution or toxicity in the air is not quite enough to 
kill anyone immediately. Maybe this is the aftermath of a chemical accident, strong radiation in an area, or it’s a planetary atmosphere is just toxic enough to make it inhabitable without terraforming. 
A Pokémon or human can traverse a low toxicity environment for a number of hours equal to their weight 
class without feeling any ill effect. Each subsequent hour spent in the atmosphere causes them to sustain 
one injury, and every two hours spent impose a cumulative -1 penalty to all Athletics, Acrobatics, and accuracy rolls.
Antidotes can be used to cure one injury from low or medium 
toxicity exposure but have no effect on high levels of toxicity. 
Medium Toxicity 
These environments will kill you rather quickly, but they are also 
not immediately deadly. Perhaps this planet is particularly nasty 
and sulfuric, or you’re in the lair of an alien Pokémon species, the air thick with a cloud of poisonous spores. 
Rather than hours, the increment of time used in a medium 
toxicity environment is minutes. 
High Toxicity 
Y ou’ve stepped onto the surface of a planet not unlike Venus, or the room you’re in is quickly filling with 
a fast-acting neurotoxin. Either way, you will probably die very quickly unless you find a way out of the 
situation. 
Rather than hours or minutes, the increment of time used in a high toxicity environment is combat rounds. 
These environments can be as dangerous as an empty vacuum. 
art by tusika at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=622350Analysis: These rules provide
insufficient middle ground for awide range of toxicity levels. Recommendation: GMs should create their own time increments too.

26
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
New Capabilities: Hazard Tolerance and Hazard Immunity 
These capabilities function similarly to their vacuum-related counterparts. They represent a Pokémon or 
Trainer’s resistance to the effects of toxic environments. 
Hazard Tolerance lowers the toxicity of all environments by one step. High toxicity becomes medium, 
medium becomes low, and low toxicity is ignored altogether. 
Hazard Immunity confers immunity to all negative effects from toxic environments.All Poison and Steel Type Pokémon have Hazard Immunity. All non-Poison, non-Steel Type Pokémon that 
gain an immunity to poison somehow or have the Guts Ability have Hazard Tolerance. 
art by purplekecleon at http://purplekecleon.deviantart.com/Pokémon and Space Travel 
The possibility of space travel calls upon a number of abilities that might not be thought about much when dealing with purely terrestrial campaigns. Birds can always tell where magnetic north is and use it to navigate, and people can use compasses to do much the same. In the emptiness of space, these methods aren’t available, and navigation can be very difficult, not just on a personal level of keeping oriented in a zero gravity environment but on the scale of getting large spacecraft where they need to be going, usually in conjunction with warp drives or other sci-fi faster than light travel methods. Use common sense here. Using the toxic environment rules in lieu of normal poison for the sole purpose of invalidating antidote usage is in poor form for a GM. The toxic environment rules are intended for use only when the exposure to the toxic substance is ongoing and unavoidable.
Hazard Immunity might not mean the same thing to all Pokémon! Oxygen might be poisonous to a species just as what are toxins to us might be necessary nutrients for some Pokémon. If your setting calls for it, don’t be afraid to make Hazard Immunity specify only certain environments! Also consider if Hazard Tolerance Immunity for a given species should apply to radiation exposure or not!

27
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Some sci-fi works, such as Frank Herbert’s Dune , solve the problem of interstellar travel by having powerful 
psychics who are able to chart a path through the stars by virtue of their inner eye. In a sci-fi campaign, 
Psychic Type Pokémon or Trainers with a Psychic Connection can learn to do the same. This capability isn’t strictly necessary in a sci-fi campaign but can fit settings where navigational technology hasn’t advanced far enough to allow computers to calculate a safe path through space.
New Capability: Psychic NavigatorPokémon with the Psychic Navigator capability can put their psionic powers to use in charting a safe path 
for spacecraft to take toward their destination. With access to a warp drive capable ship or equivalent vessel 
that can manage faster than light travel, this is an extended action requiring a series of Perception or Focus 
checks. Each check represents 5 minutes of time attempting to divine a safe path through space. The DC is 
15 per light year, and subsequent rolls add on to previous rolls. For example, a 3 light year jump requires a 
total of 45 on Perception or Focus checks. An Alakazam rolls 20, then 21, then 18, therefore calculating a 
safe path in 15 minutes. Multiple navigators can collaborate on one jump, adding their rolls together.
Sometimes you need to make that jump before you’re done navigating. The GM should compare the accu-
mulated total from the skill checks to the DC, then decide what consequences the spacecraft should face 
from not having properly navigated. This can range from minor inconveniences such as being slightly off 
course to major problems such as crashing into an asteroid upon jumping or getting hopelessly lost in space. 
Feel free to modify this as fits your setting! Maybe simply having the Psychic Navigator capability guarantees safe jumps and a check is only needed if you’re trying to navigate without a psychic. Maybe the DCs are lower or account for a greater distance. Just adjust things to fit how easy it should be to warp out on a whim in your setting.
Space Training
So at this point you may be asking yourself how you’ll let your players take advantage of these new capabili-ties without simply assigning them by fiat. Of course this book has you covered there too. In addition to the Edges below, equipment in Chapter 2 will grant some of these capabilities. 
Gravity Training
Prerequisites: Novice Athletics or FocusEffect : Y ou gain the Gravitic Tolerance capability at 
a value of 1-3 or 2-4. 
Psychic Navigator
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Psychic), Adept Perception or FocusEffect : Y ou gain the Psychic Navigator Capability. Gravity TrainingPrerequisites: NoneCost : 1 Tutor Point
Effect : The Pokémon gains two steps to allocate in 
any direction to expand its Gravitic Tolerance capa-bility. If it has none, it may acquire one by allocating steps starting from its Home Gravity.
Psychic Navigator 
Prerequisites: Psychic Type, level 20Cost : 2 Tutor Points
Effect : Grants the Psychic Navigator Capability.Trainer Edges Pokémon Edges
28
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Sci-Fi Pokémon Variants
As they’re written now, most Pokémon are meant to function in an Earth-like environment, which can leave 
a GM wanting as they’re populating a solar system with Pokémon native to a variety of different planets. Here this book will try to provide some ideas and examples for creating variants on the origin of certain Pokémon species or alternative versions of those Pokémon to use in sci-fi campaigns. 
Hi, Mary here again! I feel I should warn you that cast is absolutely shameless. If any of these ideas seem familiar to you, just know it’s not just you. He also wants me to let you know Dune is a good book and he thinks everyone should read it but also to ignore all the stuff Frank Herbert’s son did in the universe because it’s utter tripe and garbage.
Asteroid Dwelling BeldumThese Beldums and their evolved forms make their home on asteroids high in iron content. Even after Beldums combine to become Metangs and then into Metagrosses, they continue to grow extra ‘cores’ akin to Beldum that can be removed from their bodies and implanted in small asteroids to produce more of their kind. As such, they don’t have the smooth and angular appearance of their normal versions, instead having roughly shaped bodies of hewn stone and unprocessed metal. 
Dense asteroid fields often hold large colonies of these creatures, and it isn’t uncommon within these col-
onies to find entire asteroids composed of linked Beldums, Metangs, and Metagrosses. Despite the lack of psychic ability, they seem able to communicate with each other when physically connected. 
This variety of Beldum is meant to give an example of Pokémon that can survive out in the vacuum of space 
for players to discover even when they aren’t exploring moons and planets. 
Common Habitat: Asteroid fields
Mechanical Changes: Asteroid Dwelling Beldums are Rock/Steel Type. Clear Body becomes Solid Rock. Light Metal becomes Sturdy. Asteroid Dwelling Beldum have Home Gravity 1, Gravitic Tolerance 1-3, Vac-uum Immunity, Hazard Immunity, and Free Floating 8 in place of their Levitate score. Rank down Focus and Combat and rank up Perception and Athletics. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Miracle Eye becomes Lock On, Zen Headbutt becomes Power Gem, Psychic becomes Stone Edge. The Asteroid Dwelling Beldum line loses the ability to learn damaging Psychic Type TM and Tutor Moves and becomes able to learn all Rock Type TM and Tutor Moves. 
Atmospheric Tentacruel 
These variants on the common jellyfish Pokémon are much more gaseous and have lighter, less dense bodies than their aquatic counterparts. They make their home in the upper atmospheres of gas giants, where their jelly-like bodies allow them to withstand the pressure of the immense gravity present in this locale. Colonies of these odd Tentacruel communicate through electrical signals that are easily conveyed through electrical storms in the atmosphere. As a result of their extreme low density, their bodies have thin, translucent membranes which render their tentacles nearly invisible from afar. The red bulbous masses on these Tentracruel swirl with the light but volatile gases that keep these creatures afloat.
29
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
This incarnation of Tentacool and Tentacruel is designed to help give variety to the locations where you find 
Pokémon in a sci-fi setting. Gas giant planets are difficult to design fauna for, and atmospheric dwelling entities are among the best ideas for creatures who would make that sort of place their home. 
Common Habitat: Gas giant planets
Mechanical Changes: Becomes Flying/Poison instead of Water/Poison. Replace Swim speed with a Sky speed. Atmospheric Tentacruel has Vacuum Tolerance, Hazard Immunity, Home Gravity 5, and Gravitic Tolerance 3-5. In place of Rain Dish and Hydration, it gains the Lightningrod and Aftermath Abilities. Rank down Combat and Athletics and rank up Stealth twice. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Bubblebeam becomes Air Slash, Water Pulse becomes Defog, Hydro Pump becomes Hurricane.In addition, Atmospheric Tentacruel may learn Electric Type moves such as Thunderbolt and Thunder from TMs and Tutors. 
Crystalline Parasect
This Pokémon is a union of an insectoid and a silicon-based crystalline lifeform rather than the mushroom that adorns normal Paras and Parasect. The glimmering silver crystal with its mirror-like surface makes it hard for these Parasect to hide from predators. However, it is relatively undemanding, metabolically speak-ing, and its presence massively boosts the intelligence of the otherwise quite dimwitted bug and gives it heightened senses as well as a number of strange psionic and energy-based abilities. 
Rather than the strictly parasitic relationship between a regular Parasect and its mushroom, the Crystalline 
Parasect has a mutualistic relationship with its crystal, and colonies of this Parasect variant live alongside large “trees” of these crystals, from which “seed” crystals are plucked for young Paras to grow up with. The oldest crystal trees in a colony play a similar role to queens in an insect colony as far as decision-making goes, but they are more sophisticated and tend to think in the long term better. Y ou may even choose to have societies of Crystalline Parasect that have developed technology much like humans have.
This Parasect variant is designed as a hybrid lifeform between what would be expected of a normal Earth-
bound insect and a strange form of alien life that is rather unrelatable in a base form. The hybrid nature of the Pokémon makes it easier to explore these lifeforms without contending with issues such as the nearly geological nature that silicon-based life would likely take on.
Common Habitat: Planets heavy in crystal formations
Mechanical Changes: Crystalline Parasect is Bug/Rock Type. It gains the Materializer and Telepathy Ca-pabilities. Rank down Combat and Stealth, and rank up Perception and Focus. Swap Crystalline Parasect’s Attack and Special Attack stats. 
Nearly all of Crystalline Parasect’s Abilities change. Dry Skin becomes Clear Body, Tochukaso becomes 
Cave Crasher, Effect Spore becomes Synchronize, Dire Spore becomes Mnemonic Minerals.
Mnemonic Minerals 
Scene - Free ActionEffect : Connection - Shock Quartz. Whenever a target is hit by this Pokémon’s Shock Quartz Hazard, this 
Pokémon may activate Mnemonic Minerals to also Disable the last Move used by the target. 
30
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows:
Paras adds Harden to its level-up list as a level 1 Move. Poisonpowder becomes Foresight, Stun Spore be-comes Disable, Spore becomes Shock Quartz, Slash becomes Power Gem, Growth becomes Rock Polish, Giga Drain becomes Bug Buzz, Aromatherapy becomes Refresh, Rage Powder becomes Barrier.
Crystalline Parasect loses the ability to learn Grass Type TM and Tutor Moves but adds Psyshock, Psychic, 
Shadow Ball, Shock Wave, and all Rock Type TM and Tutor Moves to its learn list. 
Shock Quartz
Type : Rock
Frequency : Scene
AC: None
Class: Status
Range : Field, Hazard
Effect : Set 4 square meters of Shock Quartz hazards. If a foe moves within 2 meters of a space occupied by 
Quartz, move at most one Quartz to the offender, then destroy the Quartz. When that happens, the Shock 
Quartz causes a foe to become Paralyzed. A Pokémon who has been hit by a Shock Quartz Hazard cannot 
get hit by another in the same encounter until it is returned to a Poké Ball and then sent back out.
Contest Type: Cool
Contest Effect: Sabotage
Data Lifeform Rotom
These Rotom variants have no physical form, even as a ghost body, outside of electrical signals and largely 
manifest as information in computerized systems. They would not appear to humanity until after comput-
er systems develop to a certain level of complexity, and they are incapable of interacting with the physical world outside of taking control of machines. 
Data Lifeform Rotoms most likely hail from an advanced alien civilization where the inhabitants have all 
chosen to forgo physical bodies in order to become one with their machines. They would be capable of cre-
ating humanoid androids in order to interact with humans, but they would prefer to conduct their interac-tions within virtual environments if they have been invented. 
Matrioshka Brains, megastructures that may be the size of planets or even entire solar systems, made en-
tirely of computational materials, would be the most likely home for Data Lifeform Rotoms. Encountering 
them is a possible catalyst for humanity to begin undergoing a technological singularity or other period of rapid technological development. 
Y ou may choose to use this Rotom variant not as a catchable Pokémon species but instead as a set of intel-
ligent aliens that the players can encounter and potentially befriend or become allies with. The variant is 
meant to give a starting point for ideas for disembodied aliens and energy lifeforms. 
Common Habitat: Alien computer systems
Mechanical Changes: Data Lifeform Rotoms are pure Electric Type. In addition, they only exist in an Ap-
pliance Form and do not have stats otherwise. Specific capability changes may depend upon the Appliance 
Form taken. Rank down Athletics and Acrobatics and rank up Tech Education twice. Static is replaced by 
Download in their Ability list. 
31
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Astonish becomes Disable, Ominous Wind becomes Thunderbolt, Hex becomes Simple Beam. 
Desert Stunfisk and Steelix
On some desert planets, most drinkable water is locked away far underground by colonies of strange sand fish that sometimes coalesce into terrifying sandworms as they grow and mature as a colony. These crea-tures can single-handedly define the ecosystem of an entire planet. 
These Stunfisk variants instinctively seek out water and attempt to surround it with their bodies, eventually 
amassing in large groups that hoard the fresh water of a desert. In contrast, however, water is anathema to the Steelix that these Stunfisk eventually become, and part of the reason water is kept locked away by the base evolutionary form is to allow the fully mature sandworms to avoid water as they travel through the sands. 
Common Habitat: Desert planets
Mechanical Changes: The Stunfisk becomes Water/Ground and Steelix becomes pure Ground Type. In or -
der to evolve from Stunfisk to Steelix, a large number of Stunfisk of at least level 25 must be gathered in one place where their bodies fuse to become the plates of a Steelix. 
Stunfisk: Static becomes Storm Drain. 
Steelix: Weak Armor is replaced with Arena Trap.
Steelix gains the Capability Melange Production , which allows it to produce a single Prescient Powder item 
each week. Consuming this item inflicts 3 injuries on a Trainer but grants them the Psychic Navigator Edge 
for two hours and allows them to use a Scry or Augury (as from Oracle) once. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Stunfisk: Thundershock becomes Water Gun, Discharge becomes Bubblebeam, Thunderbolt becomes Surf. Steelix: Iron Tail becomes Sinkhole. 
Sinkhole
Type : Ground
Frequency : Scene
AC: 2
Damage Base 8: 2d8+10 / 19Class: PhysicalRange : Burst 4, Groundsource
Effect : All legal targets are Slowed and are Pushed until they are adjacent to the user. On a roll of 18-20 
during Accuracy Check, all targets are Stuck until the end of their next turn.Contest Type: ToughContest Effect: Steady PerformanceSpecial : Grants Groundshaper
32
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Group Consciousness Clefairy
These Clefairy have a peculiar definition of what defines an individual or a personality. Each Clefairy pos-sesses to some degree unique personality traits that set them apart from others, but nearly no Clefairy live alone as these ‘singletons’ as they’re called. An individual Clefairy on its own is rather dull and unintelligent. Clefairy norms typically define a mind or identity as requiring several different Clefairy who become linked together telepathically as one in a semi-permanent manner, and it is hard for them to conceive of a mind that has only one body. This phenomenon isn’t merely multiple minds in communication but instead a sin-gle mind in control of several bodies. Each singleton Clefairy brings to their pack small personality traits, but it the whole is greater than the parts, giving these Clefairy human-like intelligence. 
Loss of one member of the pack causes mental trauma to the Clefairy group, which suffers loss of memory, 
a dimming of intelligence, and rapid shifts in personality. Clefairy groups of smaller numbers will often seek out singletons to add to the pack in response to these events. A group of this Clefairy variant should be treated as a single Pokémon, much like one would treat the multiple eggs in Exeggcute as one Pokémon.
Common Habitat: Earth’s moon
Mechanical Changes: Group Consciousness Clefairy is Fairy/Psychic Type. Friend Guard becomes Cluster Mind. Unaware becomes Telepathy. Rank down Athletics and Acrobatics and rank up Perception and Fo-cus. This variant has Home Gravity 1, Gravitic Tolerance 1-3, Vacuum Immunity and Free Floating 4. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows:
Wake-Up Slap becomes Psycho Cut, Body Slam becomes Psychic.
Living Ocean Shellos
On a far away aquatic planet, the very ocean itself and the ocean floor is a living organism, composed of billions upon billions of Shellos that melt into each other. Their membranes melt and dissolve at will, allow-ing them to take on one collective form. Occasionally, a Shellos in the living ocean can choose to become individuated from the others, taking on the familiar shape of a normal Shellos.
When connected as one, Living Ocean Shellos are capable of complicated collective actions and share their 
thoughts and memories freely among one another. It is rare for a Shellos of this kind to willingly separate from the rest, and it is often a traumatic experience for them to be captured while individuated. 
Common Habitat: Aquatic planets
Mechanical Changes: Sticky Hold is replaced with the Cluster Mind Ability. 
Machine Swarm Unown
Out in the depths of space, nestled among debris fields or in a slowly spiraling orbit around a distant planet are the derelict ruins of former space-faring civilizations. The remnants of their orbital research stations, mobile cityships, and powerful battleships are filled with inscrutable technologies. 
One thing is shared in common between all of them, however. They are filled with small worker drones 
connected by a shared consciousness, a hive mind much like those in insect colonies. As they have begun to interact with human scouts and scavengers, they have slowly changed their form, from the symbols of a lost alien language to the familiar letters and numbers used in human society. Despite their odd form, 
33
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
these creatures are indeed Pokémon, though it remains to be seen just how Pokémon like this came to exist. 
Perhaps they were manufactured or are hybrids robotic lifeforms of some sort. Unlike normal Unown, these drones have a blocky form with sharp corners and right angles, giving them almost a pixelated appearance or a similarity to Legos. Witnesses have reported seeing both Unown that appear like digital information given physical form and ones that seem to simply be modular metal blocks.
What scientists have managed to discover is that they communicate through small psionic signals that are 
emitted and received by nanites that are spread throughout the ruins in which they are found. One in per -
haps a hundred thousand people will have a genetic marker that allows them to interface directly with these nanites, taking in millions of them simply by breathing the air around them as they explore these ruins. 
These individuals have come to be called Rune Masters and have found an odd affinity for the creatures. 
Left to their own devices, the letter Pokémon are content to watch over their ruins as sentinels, only 
attacking when an outside force threatens to destroy the remnants of their home. Otherwise they simply 
observe as humans come and go. With their age, no one knows if humans are even the first race they have 
observed since their creators disappeared or died out. 
This incarnation of the Unown is designed to retain their mystique as creatures of an ancient civilization 
that has long vanished while giving them more of a science fiction trapping and putting them into a setting 
that the characters of a space-faring campaign would more likely visit. 
Common Habitat: Destroyed spacecraft
Mechanical Changes: Becomes either Psychic/Electric or Psychic/Steel, either in the form of multiple 
variants or based on GM preference. Has the Wired, Vacuum Immunity, Hazard Immunity, Home Gravity 
3, Gravitic Tolerance 0-3, and Zapper Capabilities. Gains a roll of 4d6+4 in Edu: Technology. 
Parasitic Beedrill
This terrifying Beedrill variant cannot reproduce on its own, requiring a host in which to inject its fertilized 
eggs. This does not necessarily kill the host immediately, but after the incubation period, the newly born 
Weedle burrow their way out of the host, which is typically fatal. Unlike most Beedrill species, the Parasitic Beedrill aims to incapacitate its prey rather than kill them outright. 
This variant is of course a homage to parasitic aliens such as the titular creature in the Alien franchise. 
Common Habitat: Earth-like alien worlds
Mechanical Changes: Parasitic Beedrill’s Basic Ability is Hypno Point, which operates just like Poison Point but inflicts Sleep rather than Poison. Poison Touch becomes Paralyze Touch, which Paralyzes rather than 
inflicting Poison. It has a Home Gravity of 3. 
In addition, they have the Parasite Capability , which operates as follows: Pokémon with the Parasite Capa-
bility do not breed normally. When the female is about to have an egg, they must find a living host in which 
to plant the egg. After the normal hatch rate, the baby Pokémon will eat its way out of the body. When born 
in this way, the Pokémon may add any Moves the host Pokémon knew that are on its own Egg Move List to 
its Inheritance Moves and it gains the benefit of any Vitamins the host ate. 
Of course, this capability can be applied to any other Pokémon as well to make your own parasitic variants.
34
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Silicon Starmie
All complex lifeforms on Earth are carbon-based, but these alien Starmie have their organic compounds based on silicates instead. Due to this, Silicon Starmie have two essential states of life. When cool, they are almost more like geological fixtures than living creatures, and they live immensely long lives of very little movement, as slow as rocks shift over time. 
However, the active members of this species must maintain internal body temperatures akin to that of mol-
ten lava in order to move at speeds that are comparable to those of carbon lifeforms. This gives them a large degree of resistance to heat as well as a white hot appearance. Its psychic powers help to contain this liquid metal form and maintain its shape.
Inactive cooled Silicon Starmie can be “activated” by subjecting them to immense heat, though normally 
cool Starmie don’t move at high enough speeds for Trainers and Pokémon to interact with them meaning-
fully as lifeforms. 
This variant of Starmie is another example of silicon-based life meant to demonstrate the outer limits of 
what alien life might look like simply by switching its basic chemical composition. Unlike the Crystalline Parasect, it takes another route to getting around the problems of making silicon-based life viable and 
doesn’t piggyback on a carbon-based lifeform. Other variants of life not based on carbon compounds can 
also be used to create new alien Pokémon using these two examples as starting points.
Common Habitat: Volcanic worlds high in silicon content
Mechanical Changes: Silicon Starmie is Fire/Psychic Type and has its Basic Abilities replaced by Flame 
Body and Flash Fire. It replaces Gilled and Fountain with Heater and Firestarter. It has the Hazard Immuni-
ty, Vacuum Immunity, and Home Gravity 4 Capabilities. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Water Gun becomes Ember, Camouflage becomes Autotomize, Bubblebeam becomes Flame Burst, Brine 
becomes Lava Plume, and Hydro Pump becomes Fire Blast. It loses the ability to learn Water Type TM and 
Tutor Moves and gains the ability to learn Fire and Steel type TM and Tutor Moves. 
Space Wailord
These oddities of extraterrestrial travel have become accustomed to living in the vacuum of space itself, 
drifting through the void from celestial body to celestial body while rarely ever entering a planet’s atmo-
sphere. Similar to plants although more akin to solar panels, Space Wailords can derive energy from the 
light and heat of stars. For minerals, they harvest from asteroids and other floating debris in space, and they 
can harvest ice for moisture from asteroids as well. 
Space Wailords travel in vast schools and have close-knit communities. They are long lived enough and 
their metabolisms slow enough that they can live their lives in slow cycles, migrating closer to a star over 
years of travel to obtain energy and then moving back out toward asteroids and other debris for minerals 
and water. 
Space whales are an odd cultural fixture when it comes to fiction about space, and the Space Wailord are a 
way to bring that into Pokémon. 
35
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Common Habitat: The void of space
Mechanical Changes: Space Wailord is Water/Steel Type. It has the Home Gravity 0, Gravitic Tolerance 0-3, Vacuum Immunity, Hazard Immunity, and Levitate 5 Capabilities. It has the Levitate Ability as its sole Basic Ability and Solar Power in place of Wave Rider. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Rollout becomes Mirror Shot, Mist becomes Metal Sound. Space Wailords become able to learn Steel Type TM and Tutor Moves. 
Sulfurous Torkoal
A thick and noxious atmosphere poses more problems than toxicity for living organisms. On planets close 
to a star, thick atmospheres trap heat through the Greenhouse effect, effectively turning the entire surface 
into a furnace. These Torkoal variants have adapted to live in both the extreme heat and poisonous atmo-
sphere of such planets, burning volatile toxic gases in the forges in their shells. 
Its shell is stained yellow from the sulfur in the atmosphere, and it constantly emits sticky poisonous fumes 
from a set of smokestacks protruding from its back that allows it to better process the toxic materials it 
burns for fuel. In addition, it has grown strong claws that allow it to burrow into the ground to weather 
strong storms in the volatile atmospheres of its home planets. 
This variant is designed to give an example of Pok émon living in an extreme environment where humans 
normally can’t survive. 
Common Habitat: Hot planets with toxic atmospheres 
Mechanical Changes: Becomes Fire/Poison Type, replaces White Smoke with Sticky Smoke. Gains Flash Fire as a second Basic Ability. Gains Burrow 4. Rank down Athletics and rank up Perception. Sulfurous Torkoal has Hazard Immunity from its new Type and Home Gravity 3. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Withdraw becomes Poison Gas, Rapid Spin becomes Toxic Spikes, Heat Wave becomes Sludge Wave. Sulfu-rous Torkoal can learn Poison Type TMs and Tutor Moves. 
36
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Trans-Dimensional Vivillon
This rare variant of Vivillon flutters between dimensions and can teleport, unlike its more normal brethren. All Vivillons take on unique colorations and patterning according to the environment around them, but these particular variants are found where space-time is unstable, either due to the presence of singularities and wormholes or due to glitch phenomena near their homes. 
Electronic equipment kept around this Vivillon often malfunctions, particularly that used for navigation 
through the depths of space. This can be particularly troublesome when a spacecraft jumps to a new system and ends up right next to space station with an infestation of these Vivillons. One problem is once they settle in a location, such as a space station, it is difficult to reach out for help from other systems or worlds in getting rid of them. 
Common Habitat: Near glitch phenomena, planets near wormholes and portals
Mechanical Changes: Becomes Bug/Psychic Type, replaces Compound Eyes with Levitate, Friend Guard with Synchronize, and Effect Spore with Transporter. Gains Teleporter 2, Telekinetic, Telepath, Vacuum Im-munity, and Psychic Navigator Capabilities. Trans-Dimensional Vivillon do not need to eat, drink, or sleep. 
Replace Moves in its level-up list as follows: 
Gains Teleport as a Level 10 Move. Hurricane is replaced with Psychic. Safeguard is replaced with Trick. Trans-Dimensional Vivillon can learn Psychic Type TMs and Tutor Moves. 
37
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Glitch Pokémon
Pokémon are inherently volatile 
beings, capable of converting them-selves to pure energy to evolve or to 
be contained in a Pok é Ball. Some-
times, this volatility works against them, and a Pokémon can be corrupt-ed by glitches in reality and entities 
such as MissingNo. The result is a 
Glitch Pokémon, which often has 
traits wildly differing from those of its 
base species. 
What exactly does it mean to be 
a Glitch Pokémon in your setting 
though? This probably depends on the method by which a Glitch 
Pokémon is formed and the nature of 
glitch phenomena in general.
A Glitch Pokémon may simply make no sense. It could have a randomized Type, randomized Abilities 
and Capabilities that aren’t natural to its species, or even randomized Moves that it wouldn’t normally be capable of learning. They could also be more predictable variants, with certain Moves such as Metronome 
and Abilities such as Synchronize being common among Glitch Pokémon. They may be uniformly Type-
less, Genderless, or both. Glitch may even constitute an entire new Type in your setting, with its own set of weaknesses and resistances as well as Moves associated with it. For campaigns where MissingNo. or glitch 
phenomena play a more malevolent role, Glitch Pokémon could be suffering an affliction of data corruption 
that weakens and slowly kills them like a devouring cancer. 
This section will help give you some ideas for how to handle various interpretations of Glitch Pokémon and 
their origins as well as some templates for Glitch Pokémon. 
art by Kawiku at http://kawiku.deviantart.com/
You’ve probably noticed by now the Glitch Bender class over 
in Chapter 3. It obviously relates very well to the idea of 
Glitch Pokémon but doesn’t really have a way to make them itself. The reason is what a Glitch Pokémon might do is so varied that coming up with a class for making them or even 
a single Feature would be stifling for the concept. As a GM, you should feel free to give Glitch Pokémon similar abilities to the Glitch Bender or allow Glitch Benders to seek ways to glitch their own Pokémon. You may even allow Type Ace for Glitch Pokémon.

38
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Randomized Glitch Pokémon
This is the simplest type of Glitch Pok émon to represent in a game and is appropriate when the means of be-
coming a Glitch Pokémon is highly variable and unpredictable. Apply one or more of the following effects.
Randomize Type. Roll 1d2 for number of Types and then 1d20 for each Type, choosing as follows: Bug on 
1; Dark on 2; Dragon on 3; Electric on 4; Fairy on 5, Fighting on 6; Fire on 7; Flying on 8; Ghost on 9; Grass 
on 10; Ground on 11; Ice on 12; Normal on 13; Poison on 14; Psychic on 15; Rock on 16; Steel on 17; Water 
on 18; and on a result of 19-20, reroll the 1d20
Randomize Abilities. Roll 1d4 and replace that many Abilities with randomly chosen ones.
Randomize Moves. Roll 1d6 and replace that many level-up Moves with randomly chosen ones.
Randomize Capabilities. For each non-numerical Capability, roll 1d2 and on a roll of 1 replace it with a 
randomly chosen Capability. 
Glitch Templates
Y our setting and lore for glitch phenomena might demand that Glitch Pokémon have more predictable traits rather than be fully randomized. Here are two variations on a template that will let you quickly con-vert Pokémon to their Glitched variants. These templates share similarities with the Glitch Bender class.
Template 1 : 
The Pokémon becomes Typeless and Genderless. Their Basic Ability becomes Color Change, regardless of 
species. Add Metronome to the Pokémon’s level-up Move list at level 25. Their High Ability becomes Proba-bility Control. Add Mindlock to the Pokémon’s capabilities. 
Template 2 : 
The Pokémon becomes Typeless and Gender -
less but still has weaknesses and resistances. 
Generate 1d4 random weaknesses and 1d4 random resistances for them. Their Basic Ability becomes Synchronize, regardless of species. Add Disable and Simple Beam to the Pokémon’s level-up Move list at level 10 and 20. Their High Ability becomes Trace. Add Teleporter 2 to the Pokémon’s capabilities. 
Glitch Type
Glitch can be treated as an entirely new type itself as well. This is probably the easiest way to allow someone to play a Trainer specializ-ing in Glitch Pokémon because it means they can simply use the Type Ace class to improve and create Glitch Pokémon.
art by synced-leopard at http://synced-leopard.deviantart.com/
39
Chapter One: Genre and Setting
Here’s a suggestion for Glitch’s Type interactions. 
•	Glitch Type deals super effective damage 
against Electric, Psychic, and Steel Type. •	Glitch Type deals not very effective damage 
against Ghost and Poison Type. •	Glitch Type takes super effective damage from 
Ghost and Psychic Type. •	Glitch Type takes not very effective damage 
from Normal and Electric Type. 
The following Abilities fit Glitch Type well: 
Download, Trace, Synchronize, Color Change, Pressure, Probability Control, Interference.
The following Moves can be converted to Glitch 
Type: Conversion, Conversion2, Disable, Metro-nome, Recycle, Simple Beam, Tri-Attack, Trick. 
Here are a few ideas for new Glitch Type Moves. Blue Screen  - AC 6 - Scene  - DB 12: 3d12+10 - Special - 8m, Ranged Blast 2 - Disables targets’ last Move.
Data Drain - AC 2 - EOT - DB 10: 3d8+10 - Special - 6m, 1 Target - Suppresses the target on 19-20.Dimensional Rend - AC 3 - At-Will - DB 5: 1d8+8 - Physical - Melee, 1 Target - Lowers a random stat by one combat stage on 17-20.Disrupting Wave - AC 4 - EOT - Status - Cone 2, Friendly - Lowers a random stat by two combat stages.Glitch Pulse - AC 2 - At-Will - DB 8: 2d8+10 - Special - 6m, 1 Target - Disables target’s last Move on 19-20.Glitch Strike - AC 2 - At-Will - DB 8: 2d8+10 - Physical - Melee, 1 Target - Suppresses the target on 18-20.Pain Swap - AC 5 - Daily - Status - 6m, 2 Targets - Swaps a Status Affliction from one target to the other.Tele-Crash - AC 2 - Scene x2 - DB 10: 3d8+10 - Physical - Melee, 1 Target - After using Tele-Crash, the user teleports 1d6+3 meters away in any direction. 
Glitch Affliction
Becoming a Glitch Pokémon may be a lethal process in your setting, even if it has potentially beneficial side-effects. For example, a Pokémon blessed by MissingNo. may gain the abilities of a Glitch Template, but it will slowly corrode over time and waste away. Glitch Pokémon may be the result of malfunctioning Poké Balls or subjecting Poké Balls or other energy conversion systems to electromagnetic interference, and in this case organ failure, cancer, and neurological problems may result from the process. Glitch may even be the result of a plague, either biological in nature like a Pokérus virus or technological like a nanobot-inflict-ed disease that changes a Pokémon’s biology in unpredictable and dangerous ways. 
Regardless of what other effects you make Glitch Pokémon have, you can apply these effects. When a 
Pokémon is first affected by Glitch, it gains the Glitched 1 Capability, and each new exposure or worsening of Glitch’s effects increments this number by 1. Each of the Pokémon’s Base Stats are reduced by their Glitch Capability, and when their Base HP reaches 0, the Pokémon dies. At Glitch 2 and every subsequent multiple of 2, reduce all Movement and Jump Capabilities by 1, to a minimum of 1 for Movement or 0 for Jump. At Glitch 3 and every subsequent multiple of 3, reduce the Power Capability by 1.
art by Kawiku at http://kawiku.deviantart.com/
Chapter 2
Gear and 
Technology
41
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Basic Sci-Fi Gear
Modern Age Gear
Poké Ball CannonEquipment Slots: Main + Off HandCost : 
$4500
Effect : Increases Poké Ball and Pester Ball accuracy by +1 and range to 15 meters. Balls deal 2d6 unreduc-
ible damage upon hitting a target. Balls take a Shift Action to ready in the Poké Ball Cannon. Sci-fi campaigns often put characters into situations that the normal gamut of equipment available in PTU 
is insufficient to handle. How often are your typical Pokémon Trainers cast out into the vacuum of space, for example, or forced to endure the gravity and atmosphere of an alien world? This section will give examples of catch-all equipment that could be available in sci-fi settings, ranging from environmental gear to high tech infiltration equipment. Combat equipment and items with more specialized subsystems, such as vehi-cles, cybernetics, and Pokébots will be covered in their own sections later in this chapter. 
Technology Levels
Of course, this book wouldn’t try to claim all of these items are appropriate for all sci-fi campaigns. The staggering variation in genres calls for separating items and equipment by tech level so GMs and players have a sense for whether a particular piece of technology is appropriate for their campaign. the tech levels described below aren’t meant to be hard and fast rules but instead general guidelines. 
Modern Age: This category covers gear that is plausible to acquire in modern times. For GMs intending 
only to add a little sci-fi to their campaign, all of these items would be appropriate. Robotic Age: Commercial robotics have taken off, space travel is more common, and colonization of the solar system is underway. Most items will fall into this category, and even modern campaigns might borrow selected items from this tech level. All Pokébots will also fall under this tech level. Transhuman Age: Despite the name, this doesn’t necessarily imply the ultratech of many transhuman sci-fi works but simply the age when technology to surpass human limits becomes more viable, including much in the way of biotech and virtual reality technology. All cybernetic augmentations fall under this tech level.Galactic Age: Civilization spans the stars, and space travel is ubiquitous. Galactic level tech can verge on the fantastical and be mistaken for magic. It is appropriate for very high tech soft sci-fi campaigns.Genre Tech: This category is for genre-specific items and equipment that don’t fit neatly into tech levels.
art by tenjou ryuka at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=231279
42
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Hazmat Suit
Equipment Slots: Body + HeadCost : 
$3500
Effect : Acts as a Gas Mask but also grants the Haz-
ard Immunity capability and immunity to non-dam-aging Poison Type Moves. 
Spacesuit
Equipment Slots: Body + Head
Cost : 
$8000
Effect : Grants Vacuum Immunity and Free Floating 
4. Weighs 200 pounds and is thus difficult for most 
Trainers to use in normal gravity. A Robotic Age up-graded version costing an extra 2000 confers Hazard Immunity too and weighs only 100 pounds instead. 
Thermal Goggles
Equipment Slots: HeadCost : 
$1000
Effect : Allows you to see in the IR spectrum, en-
abling you to easily pick out a person or Pokémon in camouflage or to identify sources of heat. 
Handheld Propeller
Equipment Slots: Off HandCost : 
$3500
Effect : Increases Swim speed by +3. 
Robotic Age GearLifting FrameEquipment Slots: Main + Off HandCost : 
$3000
Effect : A mechanized frame worn over each arm 
with motorized muscles. Grants +2 to Power Ca-pability. The frames are too unwieldy to use other equipment such as weapons while wearing them.Extendable Grabby ArmEquipment Slots: Main Hand
Cost : 
$750
Effect : A dexterous and flexible arm with a hand at 
the end. Can be used to grab and manipulate objects 
from 3 meters away. 
Thermal Dampening Suit
Equipment Slots: BodyCost : 
$2000
Effect: The user is invisible to thermal imaging gear. 
Treecko Gear
Equipment Slots: Main-Hand, Off-Hand, FeetCost : 
$3500
Effect : Grants the Wallclimber capability. 
Transhuman Age GearPheromone EmitterEquipment Slots: AccessoryCost : 
$2000
Effect : Emits pheromones as a Swift Action that give 
a +4 bonus to a Charm or Intimidate check against wild Pokémon. Requires a Pheromone Cartridge to use. Comes with 1 Cartridge. More can be bought for 250 apiece.  
Sonic Filter
Equipment Slots: AccessoryCost : 
$2500
Effect : Creates a portable field of directed white 
noise with a 2 meter radius when activated. Anyone within can hold a conversation normally, but any-one outside the field just hears static coming from the direction of the wearer. Moves with the Sonic Keyword aimed at a target within the field require 2 more on Accuracy Roll to hit. 
Mind Aegis
Equipment Slots: HeadCost : 
$4000
Effect : Grants a +6 bonus to Focus checks to resist 
Telepathy. If the wearer has the Iron Mind Edge, Mind Aegis grants the Mindlock capability instead.The PTU core Gas Mask item may also confer Hazard Immunity for non-corrosive environments. 

43
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Scrubbing Spray
Equipment Slots: Off-HandCost : 
$3500
Effect : Sprays a chemical agent over an area that de-
stroys most forensic evidence, such as trace biomat-ter. Perception checks to track someone or to search for forensic evidence take a -6 penalty. Requires a Scrub Cartridge to use. Comes with 1 Cartridge. More can be bought for 300 apiece.
Galactic Age Gear
Universal TranslatorEquipment Slots: HeadCost : 
$10,000
Effect : Y ou understand any spoken language rec-
ognized by the Universal Translator and can speak into it and have your words translated immediately. Usually programmed with all of the major human languages. Can be used to speak with Pokémon.
Gravity Modulation Suit
Equipment Slots: BodyCost : 
$4000
Effect : Y ou may treat the local gravity as if it were 1 
lower or 1 higher. Changing the setting on the suit is an At-Will Extended Action requiring time for the suit to adjust to the new settings. 
Pokéradar
Equipment Slot : Off Hand
Cost : 
$5000
Effect : Contrary to its name, this handheld device 
actually detects both human and Pokémon lifesigns in a 20 meter radius and can display their relative location to you on a screen. No information is given about specific species. 
X-Ray Goggles
Equipment Slot : Head
Cost : 8000
Effect : Grants the user the X-Ray Vision Capability.Genre TechDimensional Field Analyzer
Cost : 
$5000
Effect : A handheld device the size of a Geiger count-
er for campaigns featuring time travel or interdi-
mensional travel of some other sort. This device can be calibrated to recognize a ‘home’ universe or timeline and can measure the amount of difference between a parallel universe and that home universe. Anomaly Detector
Cost : 
$2150
Effect : When pointed at a person, Pokémon, or ob-
ject, this handheld device can determine whether or 
not it belongs to this timeline or parallel universe. It 
gives no indication to the nature of the home uni-
verse, however. 
Glitch Detection Crystal
Equipment Slots: AccessoryCost : 
$800
Effect : A crystal necklace which begins to display 
pixelated effects and static when near Glitch phe-nomena. Pixellation and static effects intensify pro-portionally to proximity to the phenomena. 
art by b&hammer40kun at http://40-kun.deviantart.com/
44
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
New Capture Technologies
Poké Balls are a Trainer’s most basic tools, so as technology advances, improvements in Poké Ball design 
would of course be among the first new developments. Most of the items listed here are appropriate for a Robotic Age tech level campaign, though much of it could fit just as easily in Modern Age campaigns. 
Poké Ball Cases
Cases are additions to a Poké Ball that wrap around its outside. A Poké Ball can only have one case at a time. Cases can be removed as a Shift Action, and applied as a Standard Action. Poké Ball cases come in several varieties. The Jailbreaker class can create Cases. The following six Poké Ball Case types are relatively common and can be purchased in most stores that specialize in selling a variety of Poké Balls. 
Bounce Case 
Cost : 
$800
Effect : A Poké Ball in a Bounce Case may bounce once when thrown or launched, up to a distance of 3 
meters. This can be used to extend the effective range of a Poké Ball, hit around obstacles, or trigger effects such as the Capture Specialist’s Curve Ball on an additional target.
Contest Case
Cost : 
$400
Effect : Whenever a Pokémon is released from a Contest Case into a Contest, they gain 1 Appeal Point 
during the introduction stage. Flash Case Cost : 
$800
Effect : When a Poké Ball with a Flash Case is thrown, it uses the Move Flash originating from the spot 
where it landed.
Lock Case 
Cost : $400
Effect : A Lock Case grants a -10 Capture modifier to any Poké Ball. It also stops Pokémon from exiting 
Poké Balls unless explicitly released by their owners.
Medicine Case 
Cost : $400
Effect : A Medicine Case may be filled with an Antidote, Paralyze Heal, Burn Heal, Ice Heal, Awakening or 
Full Heal. This consumes the used item. When a Pokémon is recalled into a Poké Ball with a filled Medicine Case, the item is automatically used on the Pokémon. Filling a Medicine Case is an Standard Action. Medi-cine Cases may be refilled multiple times but may only have one sort of consumable in them at a time. Spray Case Cost : 
$800
Effect : A Spray Case may be filled with a Pester Ball or Repel of any variety. This consumes the used item. 
Upon hitting a target, the Spray Case is emptied, spraying the item it was filled with onto its target, automat-ically hitting.  This can occur when attempting to catch Pokémon (the effect is resolved before the capture 
45
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
roll), or when releasing a Pokémon from its Poké Ball (the effect is resolved before the Pokémon within is 
released). Spray Cases may be refilled numerous times, but may only have one sort of consumable in them at a time.
The next three Poké Ball Case types are harder to find in shops and may be illegal or restricted in some 
settings. Finding a skilled Researcher with the Jailbreaker Field of Study is the only guaranteed way to get access to these Cases.  Devil Case Cost : 
$3000
Effect : These dangerous and often illegal cases remove the failsafe on Poké Balls that prevents them from 
catching Pokémon that are at 0 Hit Points or less. It allows Poké Balls to catch Fainted Pokémon as normal, but automatically inflicts 2 Injuries when hitting a Pokémon - whether the Capture is successful or not. Storage Case  Cost : 
$15000
Effect : These extremely useful cases are capable of “Capturing” non-living matter. Once applied to a Poké 
Ball, Storage Cases cannot be removed. The object or objects in question must be smaller than 2 meters in any dimension. A single Storage Case can capture several discrete objects, but they must all be supported by a single surface; a 2x2 meter rug or mat is often used for this purpose. Capture Rolls against inanimate objects automatically succeed. Poké Balls with Storage Cases count towards the total number of Pokémon that the trainer can carry. Storage Cases are often illegal due to their uses in smuggling and theft.
Zap Case 
Cost : 
$1500
Effect : Whenever a Poké Ball with a Zap Case hits a target it deals damage as if using a Struggle Attack. This 
Damage is Electric-Typed. If the Ball is already used as a Struggle Attack (such as with Curve Ball), then the Zap Case changes the damage to Electric-Type and adds bonus damage equal to twice the user’s Technology Education skill. When attempting to catch Pokémon, damage is resolved before the capture roll. This can also be used when releasing a Pokémon (damage is resolved before the Pokémon is released).
Poké Ball Accessories
These are assorted accessories for Poké Balls which don’t take the form of a Case and thus can be used on Poké Balls contained in Cases. Similar to Cases, however, they are attached with a Standard Action and removed with a Shift Action.
Bait Attachment
Cost : 
$300
Effect : These attachments afix a piece of bait to the triggering device of a Poké Ball. When the bait is taken, 
the attachment automatically triggers a capture attempt along with any effect that would be caused by a Poké Ball Cases. 
Camera Kit
Cost : 
$1200
Effect : A small camera, microphone, and speaker set affixed to the outside of a Poké Ball or Case. These 
allow a Trainer to remotely release and command their Pokémon or attempt to capture a Pokémon. 
46
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Poké Ball Alarm
Cost : $1000
Effect : A belt with six slots for Poké Balls. Poké Balls affixed to the belt are locked in place with a number 
pad password to unlock them. Tampering with the belt triggers the password prompt, and failure to input the correct password within a minute triggers a loud alarm system. 
Poké Ball Tracking Chip
Cost : 
$200
Effect : A chip embedded in the inner workings of the Poké Ball that emits a signal allowing the Ball’s owner 
to remotely track the location of the Ball. Depending on the setting, these may be built in by default.
Hard Sci-Fi Poké Ball Alternatives
It can be difficult to explain just how Poké Ball technology works when aiming for a believable tech level in a hard sci-fi game. Additionally, some genres, such as space westerns, are improved by making Pokémon 
storage and feeding an integral part of the gameplay. 
For the most part the actual hard mechanics of how capturing works can stay the same. No matter the 
technology used, a 1d100 roll with modifiers aiming under a certain target number will work. Keeping the capture mechanics in line with the rest of the system will make things a lot easier and simpler to handle. Here are some ideas for tools Trainers can use in place of Poké Balls.
Tranquilizer Rifles: The ammunition for these rifles go beyond common sleep darts and can put Pokémon 
in a deep enough sleep to safely put them into a cage or transport them into captivity. The strength of the dosage varies in the same way Poké Balls can be categorized as Basic Balls, Great Balls, Ultra Balls, and more. Some varieties of Poké Ball may not have a clear analogue in tranquilizer ammunition, but Net Balls, Heavy Balls, Moon Balls, and others at GM discretion may have analogues in tranquilizer formulas catered towards specific traits in Pokémon biology. Tranquilizer Rifles require two hands to wield. 
Rope : A simple and ages-old solution that may be especially fitting in space western campaigns. Ropes of 
different strengths and materials provide the easy and obvious analogue to different types of Poké Balls. 
Optionally, you may choose that buying rope occurs in certain lengths of rope and that Pokémon of a larger size or higher weight class require more rope per capture attempt. Rope requires two hands to use. 
Specialized Capture Tools: Not all Pokémon can be easily captured by conventional means. Amorphous 
Pokémon won’t be held by a rope, and tranquilizer darts may not work on them either. Ghosts are another tricky proposition. Large vacuum sealable jars and other containers could be used to contain amorphous Pokémon, and cages could be lined with cleanse tags to handle Ghost Types. Pokémon not susceptible to tranquilizer darts could be subdued by electric tasers as well. 
 
Something you might’ve realized if you’re discarding Pok é 
Balls is that stealing Pokémon becomes a lot easier! This 
can be a an interesting part of the setting but also doesn’t necessarily have to be the case. Trainers might administer 
special medications that make their Pokémon immune to the normal tranquilizer formula, and Trainers can always step in to stop someone from lassoing their Pokémon or putting them into cages. 

47
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Future Drugs and Medicine
Advances in biotechnology allow scientists to create ever more complex and effective drugs in a sci-fi civi-
lization. Sci-fi settings are often filled with a cornucopia of medicines that accomplish tasks we would think impossible today. The following items can help Pokémon and Trainers alike in a variety of situations and are generally appropriate for campaigns with a Transhuman Age level of technology or higher, though some of these options may also fit in a Robotic Age campaign. 
Anti-Radiation PillsCost : 
$400
Effect : An advanced version of the real life potassi-
um iodide pills. These not only protect the thyroid but instead guard against all forms of radiation poisoning, granting the user Hazard Immunity for radioactive environments only for 24 hours. 
Prescient Powder
Cost : 
$2500
Effect : An illegal and dangerous substance produced 
by desert-dwelling Steelix. Taking the drug inflicts 3 injuries on the user and allows them to use either a Scry or Augury once. The user also gains the Psychic Navigator Edge for two hours. Habitual use of the drug can lead to addiction and health problems. 
Berserker Bolus
Cost : 
$500
Effect : A combat drug used by street gangs. Im-
mediately inflicts 1 injury on the user upon taking it, but for the duration of the Scene, the user is immune to Flinch effects, gains a +2 bonus to Save Rolls, and adds 5 to all Damage Rolls. However, they are Enraged and may not make Save Rolls to end the effect until all combat ceases for at least a few min-utes. 
Locus Lozenge
Cost : 
$500
Effect : A drug to help the user focus on a single task. 
The user gains a +3 bonus to Focus and Intuition checks for the next hour but suffers a -4 penalty to Perception checks to notice outside events. Oxygenation VialCost : 
$500
Effect : These vials contain a solution of oxygen-en-
casing lipids that are injected directly into the blood-stream. One injection is enough to allow the user to go without breathing for up to thirty minutes. Subsequent injections extend the effect, but each one after the first in a 24 hour period causes the user to take one injury as their body suffers complications from the imbalance caused by the solution. These are often carried as a last resort device for astronauts and deep sea divers, as well as used by EMTs to sta-bilize patients. 
Puissance Pellet
Cost : 
$450
Effect : This painkiller and adrenaline injection lets 
the user temporarily ignore their debilitating inju-ries. A user with 5 or more injuries does not suffer Hit Point loss equal to their number of injuries when taking Standard Actions. If you are using the optional rule to decrease combat stages for each In-jury, the user ignores these combat stage losses. This effect lasts for 5 turns, and at the end of the effect, the user automatically takes another injury. 
Rambo Roids
Cost : 
$750
Effect : The user treats their Power Capability as 
increased by 2 for the next hour. However, each time they lift an object or perform a feat of strength be-yond their normal means, they must make an Ath-letics check with a DC of 12. If they fail, they take an Injury immediately. Each such feat of strength induces a cumulative -1 penalty to these Athletics checks.
48
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Shock Syringe
Cost  $500
Effect : This drug enhances the sensitivity of the us-
er’s nerves, enhancing their perception and making it incredibly useful for scouts and recon missions. However, the enhanced sense of touch greatly lowers the user’s pain tolerance. The user gains a +3 bonus to Perception, Focus, and Guile and a +1 bonus to Accuracy. However, each time the user takes an In-jury, they are Flinched. The effects of Shock Syringe last for an hour. 
Soldier Pill 
Cost : 
$750
Effect : A potentially dangerous stimulant that pro-
vides the user enough energy to go 24 hours without sleep. Upon taking the pill twice in a 48 hour period, the user begins to take 1 injury every 2 hours until they choose to go to sleep. The user of a Soldier Pill gets a +3 bonus to rolls to wake up from Sleep.
Spritz Spray
Cost : 
$250
Effect : A drug that improves reflexes at the cost of 
mental focus. The user of Spritz gains +5 initiative and +1 Evasion for the next 5 rounds  of combat but suffers a -3 penalty to Perception and Focus checks for the next hour. 
Volatile Machine 
Cost : 10x the cost of the equivalent TM
Effect : An experimental variant of the technology 
used in creating TMs and HMs, Volatile Machines, or VMs for short, teach a specific Move like their counterparts but can be used by any Pokémon re-gardless of normal Move compatibility. 
VMs usually take the form of highly advanced 
drugs for gene therapy and often require a Pokémon stay under monitoring in a medical facility for the duration of application, during which time they receive several different drug formulas. Applying a VM can take anywhere from a day to a week to even longer, by GM discretion. VMs are very powerful items and not  appropriate for all campaigns.Moves taught via VM take up two Move slots and a Vitamin slot, and as a result Pokémon who use a 
VM may only ever learn a maximum of 5 moves by 
default, of which only one other may be a TM or 
Tutor Move. Pokémon can only have one VM Move 
at a time, even if Features or other effects would 
normally allow them to have more. 
White Light
Cost : 
$800
Effect : So named for the soft white glow the liquid 
gives off, White Light is a crude “truth serum” . It is slow-acting, taking upwards of an hour to take full effect on a victim. The victim becomes more sug-gestible and gullible. All of their Guile, Intuition, and Focus Checks made during an interrogation are subject to a -5 penalty. 
art by Touryou at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=224237
49
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Weapons and Combat Gear
No sci-fi setting is complete without advanced futuristic weaponry. Here are some options for PTU and the 
rules for how to handle them. Many of these weapons will require a character take specialized Trainer Edges to learn how to wield and maintain them. These weapons are appropriate for Robotic Age tech levels. Refer to the core PTU pdf for tips on weapon availability and pricing. 
Futuristic Firearms
All firearms deal Special damage, adding the user’s Special Attack to the damage roll. 
Laser Rifle
Weapon Type : Long Range
Effect : A rifle created to imitate the Flash Cannon 
Pokémon Move. Grants Flash Cannon in addition to the usual Adept and Master Moves.
Tesla Coil Gun
Weapon Type : Long Range
Effect : A gun delivering a powerful shock, based 
off of Electric Type Pokémon. Grants Shockwave at Adept and Thunderbolt at Master. 
Flame Jet
Weapon Type : Short Range
Effect : A short range flamethrower derived from 
studying Fire Type Pokémon. Grants Flame Burst at Adept and Flamethrower at Master.Melee Armaments
Laser SwordWeapon Type : Large or Small Melee
Effect : A retractable hard-light blade that’s just 
as sharp as any metal blade. Grants Steel Wing at Adept and Iron Tail at Master. Deals Special Damage but adds the Attack stat.
Psionic Blade
Weapon Type : Small Melee
Effect : A small focus that hones the user’s men-
tal strength into a deadly blade of psionic energy. Grants Psycho Cut in addition to the usual Adept and Master Moves. 
Optional Rule: Instead of adding Special Attack, these weapons add Tech Education Ranks x3.
Hey, if you look at the Game of Throhs overhaul, you’ll notice a big section dedicated to something called “Alchemy”. That’s basically our catch-all method for making cool weapons and other equipment for Trainers now. Be sure to pay attention to all the warning labels attached! Giving your players easy access to a variety of Types of damage can trivialize your encounters. 
Anyway, it’s easy enough to replace an “Alchemy Lodge” with a 
“Weapons Lab” and “Alchemy” with “creating prototype weapons”. Use the same general idea of taking ingredients with various traits and combining them to create a new equipment item to generate more weapon items. 

50
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Single Use Ordnance 
These one time use items, ranging from grenades to all-in-one launchers, require no Weapon Edges to use 
but still require at least a Novice level in Technology Education to properly handle. These items are often illegal outside of the hands of the military and are difficult to find vendors for. All of the items in this cate-gory require a Shift Action to ready before use. 
EMP Grenade
Cost : 
$800
Effect : Throwing an EMP Grenade is an AC 5 Ranged Blast 3 attack that can be made at a target within your 
Poké Ball throwing range. All legal targets with Augmentations immediately suffer the effects of Augmen-tation Shock. EMP Grenades flinch targets with Augmentations on a roll of 18+ on Accuracy Check. EMP Grenades disable Pokébots for 1d2 turns. 
Flashbang
Cost : 
$250
Effect: Throwing a Flashbang uses the Move Flash originating from the point where you threw the Flash-bang, up to your maximum Poké Ball throwing range. When used in this way, Flash flinches all legal targets on 19-20 on Accuracy Check. 
Sting Grenade
Cost : 
$250
Effect : Throwing a Sting Grenade is an AC 4 Ranged Blast 3 attack that can be made at a target within your 
Poké Ball throwing range. Upon connecting, the Sting Grenade releases dozens of hard rubber balls around it, causing pain to the targets but no damage. Those targets take a -3 penalty to all rolls and to their evasion until the start of your next turn. 
Zap Blasters and Inferno Cannons are integrated one-shot delivery systems capable of launching a very 
powerful electrical discharge or burst of flame once before frying out the circuits. They are very heavy piec-es of equipment, weighing in excess of 50 pounds. They are unwieldy to carry, incapable of being hidden, and it’s usually impossible to carry more than one at a time without special storage equipment. They take the form of a large cannon that is fired from the shoulder. 
Zap Blaster 
Cost : 
$1000
Effect : Uses the Move Zap Cannon once. 
Inferno CannonCost : 
$1000
Effect : Uses the Move Inferno once. What’s that? You want damaging grenades? Use a Voltorb or an Electrode! It’s still a Pokémon game, and there’s no sense inventing an item for something Mother Nature has made a perfectly good solution for already. 

51
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Armor
The following armor items are Body Slot equipment. 
Ablative Heavy Armor
Cost : $14,500
Effect : A weighty but brittle armor that is self-repairing. Grants 20 Damage Reduction, but each damaging 
attack removes 5 Damage Reduction from the armor.  Every five minutes, the armor repairs 5 Damage Re-duction. The user’s Speed Combat Stage defaults to -1.
Flame Retardant Armor
Cost : 
$5000
Effect : Y ou gain 10 Damage Reduction against Fire Type damage. 
Mesh ShieldingCost: 
$8000
Effect : An advanced anti-conductive fabric woven into a stiff jacket designed to shield sensitive electronics 
from damage and electrical shock. Y ou gain 5 Damage Reduction against Electric Type damage. Whenever you would suffer Augmentation Shock, roll 1d2. On a 1, you suffer no ill effects.
Reinforced Trenchcoat
Cost : 
$10,000
Effect : A stylish utility version of Light Armor. Grants 5 Damage Reduction and provides a +4 bonus to 
Stealth checks to conceal weapons and prevents their detection by metal detectors. 
Sensor Disruption Vest
Cost : $2000
Effect :  The specially designed material of this vest wreaks havoc with the sensors used on most Pokébot 
models and Eye Augmentations. Pokébots and any Trainers or Pokémon with an Eye Augmentation suffer a -2 penalty to their single target Accuracy Checks made against the wearer. 
Slipstream Armor
Cost : 
$10,000
Effect : A flexible and smooth light armor that can momentarily become nearly frictionless. Grants 5 Dam-
age Reduction. Once a battle, the wearer may use a Swift Action to escape from being Stuck.
‘Why does armor cost more than a vehicle?’ you might inquire. 
This query is not unexpected. Prices for armor items are based upon PTU core armor prices, and to make the simplest vehicles more expensive than all armor would have caused their prices to be far too high! Consider this a strange quirk for the sake of game balance, much like how Poké Balls 
cost much less money than they should for the technology that they represent. If armor is cheaper in your game, adjust the prices!

52
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Pokébots
As robotics technology improves, the obvious application of these technologies to imitate Pokémon be-
comes feasible. Just as some of the first commercial robotic toys in real life were robotic dogs and other pets, it makes sense that in the Pokémon universe people would want to create robots in the image of their favor -
ite Pokémon. Pokébots are a Robotic Age tech level item but can exist in any campaign where engineering has advanced enough to allow their creation. The Engineer Trainer class in Chapter 3 is designed to work with Pokébots and is recommended in campaigns that heavily feature their use.
Despite the name, Pokébots need not resemble Pokémon at all. Human-form android Pokébots may be used 
to help with household chores, for example, and maintenance Pokébots may be distinctly mechanical in nature so as not to cause confusion. 
Basic Pokébot Mechanics
Pokébots are given stats and treated much like Pokémon are. Pokébots can make Struggle Attacks and can also perform and be affected by Combat Maneuvers if their structure allows for it, but they never add STAB to any attacks they make. Pokébots can gain Injuries but are immune to all Status Effects except for Burn, Frozen, Paralysis, Disabled, Suppressed, Trapped, Slowed and Flinch. Pokébots are Typeless and Genderless but count as Steel Type for the purposes of Magnet Pull and take Super-Effective damage from Fire, Electric, 
and Ground Moves. Pok ébots are capable of using most Held Items, though not consumables.
Small Pokébots begin with 32 total base stats, distributed as you like, with a maximum of 6 in a given stat. 
Medium Pokébots begin with 40 total base stats, distributed as you like, with a maximum of 8 in a given stat. Large Pokébots begin with 48 total base stats, distributed as you like, with a maximum of 10 in a given stat. Pokébots gain Stats through Level up and are given Experience like Pokémon are. 
Small Pokébots have Overland 6, Power 1, and Jump 0/0. Their size is Small, and they are Weight Class 1. 
They have 4 skill ranks to split between Athletics and Combat, 6 to split between Acrobatics and Stealth, and no Perception or Focus ranks by default. 
Medium Pokébots have Overland 5, Power 3, and Jump 1/1. Their size is Medium, and they are Weight 
Class 3. They have 5 skill ranks to split between Athletics and Combat, 5 to split between Acrobatics and Stealth, and no Perception or Focus ranks by default. 
Large Pokébots have Overland 4, Power 5, and Jump 1/1. Their size is Large, and they are Weight Class 5. 
They have 6 skill ranks to split between Athletics and Combat, 4 to split between Acrobatics and Stealth, and no Perception or Focus ranks by default.  
All Pokébots have the Hazard Immunity, Vacuum Immunity, and Mindlock capabilities by default. Pokébots 
can have any Home Gravity and have Gravitic Tolerance for one step to each side of that value. A Pokébot can be restored to its full Hit Points at a Pokémon Center with repair facilities, or by repairing it over the time period of an Extended Rest. However, Pokébots may only have 1 Injury removed per repair period, un-less repaired at a Pokémon Center, in which case they may have up to 3 removed. Quick-fix kits that act like Restorative Items for Pokébots can also be bought in stores at equivalent prices. If a Pokébot reaches -200% Hit Points, it is completely destroyed and turned into scrap worth 1/3rd of their creation cost. 
53
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
New Mechanic: Complexity
Pokébots have an additional measurement called Complexity that determines how difficult it is to manu-
facture as well as control the Pokébot. All Pokébots start at Complexity 0 regardless of size and increase in Complexity as components are added such as enhanced communications gear and weaponry. 
Small Pokébots have a maximum Complexity of 6, Medium Pokébots have a maximum Complexity of 8, 
and Large Pokébots have a maximum Complexity of 10. Skilled Engineers may surpass these limits and create Pokébots no other Trainer has the understanding to control. 
Trainer Edge
Pokébot TrainingPrerequisites: Novice TechnologyEffect : Y ou may control a Pokébot with Complexity up to your Technology Rank by using a Pokémon turn.
Imitating PokémonPokébots may be designed to specifically imitate a Pokémon species. In this case, it is usually obvious upon touching the Pokébot, except in the case of some Steel Type Pokémon, that it is an imitation. 
Under scrutiny at a close range, the difficulty of 
a check to tell the difference is equal to twice the creator’s Technology Education Ranks, using a Perception, Intuition, Pokémon Education, or Technology Education Skill Check. At greater distances, the difficulty becomes three times the creator’s Technology Education Ranks. 
art by inemuri uno at http://www.inemuri.xii.jp/
How to Handle Buying or Acquiring Pokébots Pokébots are a specialty item, even in higher tech settings, and not every Pokémart will carry them. If they do, they will likely carry only a number of standard models with simplistic options. The more specialized the store, the greater their selection will be. Players will often want to contact an Engineer, if they have none among their ranks, in order to custom order more sophisticated Pokébots. 
All Pokébots come equipped with communications and recording hardware, GPS, basic A.I., and security 
software that can lock out users other than the owner. The following section will give examples of common Pokébot models and the uses the Pokébots have. The prices for these Pokébots are of course higher than if they were created by an Engineer. If you want to come up with your own Pokébot models to put on store shelves, just stat them using the Engineer’s options and then increase the cost of the final product to account for the store’s profit. Note that not all options that an Engineer has access to should be widely available in shops, in order to preserve the Engineer’s uniqueness and utility. Any models on the following pages can be leveled up, with an according increase in cost.
54
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Pokébot Template
Cost : 
Complexity : 
Level :
Size: 
Hit Points:Stats: HP/Atk/Def/SpAtk/SpDef/SpdSample Pokébots
BeeDroneCost : 
$6,000
Complexity : 2
Level : 15
Size: Small
Hit Points: 61Stats: 12/15/5/1/5/12Capabilities : Levitate 4, Sky 2
Skills : Athl 1d6, Combat 3d6, Acro 4d6, Stealth 2d6
Add-Ons: Levitate Ability, Tackle, Take Down, and Drill Peck (Normal Type) in Move ListDescription: A mechanical Beedrill, used in swarms as an internal defense in corporate compounds and the homes of the rich and powerful.  Capabilities : [note: the default capabilities for the given Pokébot 
size, such as Hazard Immunity, Overland value, and Power, are 
not listed unless they differ for the specific model]
Skills : 
Add-Ons: Description: 
ScoutorbCost : 
$3000
Complexity : 0
Level : 5
Size: Small 
Hit Points: 54Stats: 13/1/10/1/5/10Capabilities : DefaultSkills : Athl 3d6, Combat 1d6, Acro 2d6, Stealth 4d6
Add-Ons: NoneDescription: A scouting bot commonly used by law enforcement in urban environments, looks like a discarded broken Poké Ball or a Voltorb. Urban explorers often make use of the bot as well. 
ButlerbotCost : 
$8,000
Complexity : 3
Level : 5
Size: Large
Hit Points: 75Stats: 20/4/10/1/10/10Skills : Athl 5d6, Combat 1d6, Acro 2d6, Stealth 2d6, Perception 
4d6, Focus 2d6, Charm 3d6, Intuition 2d6, Guile 1d6, Education Skills 1d6Add-Ons: Special: personality software for the A.I.Description: A humanoid bot designed as a household servant. A surprisingly common model seen in many middle class homes.
BulbakomaCost : 
$10,000
Complexity : 6
Level : 30
Size: Medium
Hit Points: 100Stats: 20/12/5/20/5/10Capabilities : Overland 9, Jump 2/2
Skills : Athl 2d6, Combat 3d6, Acro 4d6, Stealth 2d6
Add-Ons: Tackle, Take Down, Body Slam, Slash, Discharge, Thunderpunch, and Magnet Rise in Move ListDescription: A combat model bot designed in the shape of a stylized Bulbasaur. Despite its appearance, its primary attack is a powerful electric pulse, and it is capable of levitation. 
art by koyomi at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=244426art by idlecil, website NSFW , use google

55
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
art by idlecil, website NSFW , use google
Advanced Pokébot Customization
Are you looking for more options to customize the Pokébots in your store? Or maybe the Engineer in the 
party is looking for ways to make their creations more distinctive and unique. Here are some optional ideas and mechanics that can be used to give Pokébots that little bit of extra spice.
Alternative Pokébot Materials
By default, Pokébots have weaknesses to Electric, Fire, and Ground damage and no Resistances. Y ou may choose to allow Engineers to use different materials, multiplying the final cost of the Pokébot with all at-tachments, in order to achieve different weakness and resistance sets. Feel free of course to create your own 
materials and ideas. 
Chromic Jelly: Multiply construction costs by 1.5. Resists Fire, Electric, and Fighting. Weak to Steel, Ice, and Poison. 
Conductive Crystal: Multiply construction costs by 1.2 Weak to Steel, Fighting, and Rock.Psionic Alloy: Multiply construction costs by 2. Resists Psychic and Fighting. Weak to Dark. Pokébot can be con-trolled through Telepathic communication. Loses the Mindlock Capability. May have Psionic Blades installed via Combat Basics Suite.Reinforced Steel: Multiply construction costs by 2. Gains Steel Type’s weaknesses and resistances. 
Combining Augmentations and PokébotsAn Upgrader/Engineer may be able to integrate their Augmentation technology into Pokébots. Use the Capacity Used by an Augmentation to determine the increase in Complexity that the Pokébot undergoes.
Pokébots and A.I.
The Complexity rules are meant to put limits on how powerful of Pokébots Trainers can command. Y ou may choose for select Pokébots an Engineer creates to be usable in battle regardless of Complexity limits, especially as gifts and companions for other characters.  
Pokébots and Rotom Forms
The Wired Compatibility addition to Pokébots allows you to have greater control over the types of Appli-ance Forms your Rotoms can take. While it is reasonably simple to come up with ideas for these, here is an example for each of the Types that aren’t represented by canon Rotom forms. 
Type  Form  Move
Bug  Cicada Bot  Bug Buzz
Dark  Scarecrow  Dark Pulse
Dragon  Dragon Boat  Draco Meteor
Fairy  Robot Plushie  Moonblast
Fighting  Boxing Glove  Focus Blast
Ground  Seismograph  Earth Power
Normal  Singing Robot  Hyper Voice
Poison  Arm Cannon  Sludge Bomb
Psychic  Pocket Watch  Future Sight
Rock  Mining Helmet  Power Gem
Steel  Chainsaw  Gear Grind
art by Jamuko at http://jamuko.deviantart.com/
56
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Cybernetic Augmentations
Technological augmentations to the body, ranging from brain implants to mechanical prosthetic limbs, are 
a staple of sci-fi fiction and especially common in the cyberpunk genre or any stories about transhumanism. The Upgrader Trainer Class provided in this book makes extensive use of augmentation technology. 
In many settings, these augmentations may be standard and used by the majority of the population. Refusal 
or inability to be augmented could result in social exclusion or being unable to find a job. In worlds with widespread use of augmented reality, a digital overlay resting over the real world that often provides useful information, this could especially be the case. 
Conversely, human and Pokémon augmentation could be a hotly contested issue and regarded as a dan-
gerous and experimental technology. Users of cybernetic augmentations could face regular persecution or 
suffer from the side-effects of an undeveloped and untested technology. 
It’s up to the GM to decide what the state of augmentation technology is in their world and how to handle 
it from a lore perspective. This section will provide the basic mechanics for using cybernetic augmentations and also a set of optional rules and ideas for handling drawbacks to becoming augmented.
New Mechanic: Augmentation Capacity
All Pokémon and Trainers have a limited capacity for how much their bodies can be augmented by tech-nology. Whether the augmentations are mechanical or biological in nature, the body tends to reject foreign elements, and it is delicate work to coax the body into treating an Augmentation as part of itself. People who require organ transplants often require drugs for the rest of their lives to trick their immune systems into treating their new organs as their own. The process is even more complicated for Augmentations.
Pokémon and Trainers have an Augmentation Capacity of 10. Each installed Augmentation consumes a cer -
tain amount of this Augmentation capacity. Be careful and speak to your GM about how they are handling 
Augmentations before you consider them for your character or their Pokémon. Under some of the optional rules provided here, there are drawbacks to filling up too much of your Augmentation Capacity. 
Installing Augmentations
Having Augmentations installed can be a tricky and time-consuming process, taking anywhere from hours to days for the surgery and recovery. Finding a doctor who is able to perform the necessary operation can in itself be a daunting task. Augmentations can be supplements or prosthetics depending on chosen fluff.
In addition to the Capacity used by a particular Augmentation, each Augmentation is installed in 
a particular body part. Augmentations which are installed in the same slot are not compatible with each other. Pokémon lacking the requisite body part may not use an Augmentation. As an additional complication, Pokémon may not wish to be augmented, and doing so may incur a loyalty loss.
57
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Limb Augmentations obviously affect the limbs. 
Body Augmentations are thorough and invasive Augmentations that are spread throughout the core of someone’s body. Dermal Augmentations replace skin all over the body but do not affect internal tissue.Eye Augmentations replace or supplement the eyes. 
List of Augmentations
DatajackSlot: n/a
Cost : 
$500
Capacity Used: 0Effect : The user may directly interface with comput-
ers, accessing the data through an Eye Slot Augmen-tation, external visor, Pokédex, or internal computer. The user can communicate wirelessly with others over networks using the Datajack.
Enhanced Sight
Slot: Eyes
Cost : 
$2000
Capacity Used: 1Effect : The user can see in the IR spectrum and 
gains the Darkvision Capability.
Smart Vision
Slot: Eyes
Cost : 
$3000
Capacity Used: 2Effect : The user cannot have their Accuracy lowered, 
and their attacks cannot have Accuracy Penalties. The user is immune to the Blinded condition (but not Total Blindness). Synthetic MuscleSlot: Limbs
Cost : 
$2000
Capacity Used: 2Effect : The user gains a +2 bonus to their Power  
Capability and +1 to both High and Long Jump Capabilities. 
Embedded Weaponry
Slot: Limbs
Cost : 
$4000
Capacity Used: 3Effect : Choose Small Melee or Short Range. The 
user is always treated as equipped with the chosen type of Weapon at a Simple Quality, without con-suming an equipment slot, and it may not be dis-armed. When installed, choose Bash!, Cheap Shot, or Pierce! for this Weapon’s Adept Move. The user may use Technology Education to qualify for Moves from this Weapon.
Medical Nanobots
Slot: Body
Cost : 
$2000
Capacity Used: 2Effect : Three times a day as an Extended Action, 
the user may gain a Digestion Buff as if they had consumed Leftovers. This does not take up one of the user’s normal Digestion Buff slots, but they may only have one Digestion Buff gained this way at a time.As an optional rule, you may decide to allow Pokémon without the necessary body part to use an Augmentation as a prosthetic extra body part, such as a Deino with cybernetic eyes. This doubles the Capacity used by the Augmentation.

58
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Wired Reflexes
Slot: Body
Cost : $3000
Capacity Used: 3Effect : The user begins each Scene with two Reflex 
Points. These may be spent as a Swift Action on their turn to give them a +2 bonus to their Accuracy (before rolling) or their Evasion for one full round. 
Dermal Plating
Slot: Dermal
Cost : 
$4000
Capacity Used: 3
Effect : Once a Scene, the user may take Physical 
Damage as if they resisted it one step further.Thermal-Optical CamouflageSlot: Dermal
Cost : 
$8000
Capacity Used: 4Effect : The user may activate the Invisibility Capa-
bility once per Scene. While Invisible, the user can’t be seen by thermal imagining equipment. 
Drawbacks to Augmentation
Installing Augmentations all throughout your body does not come without cost. While the some of these rules are optional, one drawback to Augmentation applies in all cases: Augmentation Shock.
Augmentation Shock
Augmentations are easily damaged by electrical damage. Whenever an Augmented Pokémon or Trainer takes Electric Type damage in excess of 25% of their Maximum Hit Points or suffers the effects of Thunder Wave or an EMP weapon, they go into Augmentation Shock. For targets with Electric-Type Immunity, cal-culate the damage they would take if they were Doubly Resistant for the purposes of determining whether they suffer Augmentation Shock. Thunder Wave still causes Augmentation Shock for these targets.
When a Pokémon or Trainer goes into Augmentation Shock, their Augmentations are disabled for 2 rounds. 
At the GM’s discretion, particularly powerful electromagnetic interference may leave Augmentations dis-abled for longer. In addition, they suffer a penalty to all rolls and to their Evasion equal to half of their used Augmentation Capacity for that duration. For example, a Trainer with the Medical Nanobots and Dermal Plating Augmentations has used 6 Augmentation Capacity, so they would suffer a -3 penalty. 
In addition to the Shock penalty, there are obvious downsides to your Augmentations being disabled. 
However, Trainers and Pokémon are never left completely disabled from having their Augmentations shut down. For instance, if you have had your eyes augmented, you may find yourself suffering an Accuracy Penalty, but you would still be able to see at a basic level. And if your limbs were augmented, you suffer a -1d6 circumstance penalty to all Athletics and Acrobatics rolls with those limbs but can still move around. Optionally, in more lethal campaigns, you may rule that suffering Augmentation Shock automatically inflicts an Injury. Fortunately, Trainers have a new Edge for coping with Augmentation Shock:
Shock Resistance
Prerequisites: Novice Technology EducationEffect : Y ou don’t suffer Augmentation Shock from Electric Type damage unless it is Massive Damage. 
59
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Optional Drawbacks to Augmentation
Anti-Rejection Drug Reliance
In many sci-fi settings, Augmentations don’t particularly result in many medical complications. Technology has advanced to the point where anyone can safely get Augmentations installed and only have to deal with a modicum of anti-rejection drugs. However, in certain settings you may want to emphasize this aspect more, making anti-rejection drugs expensive or making them come with their own drawbacks and side-effects.
For example, in your campaign setting, the patent for the anti-rejection drug may be controlled by one cor -
poration, and it begins to blackmail those who are reliant on it or raise prices once a significant part of the 
population has become reliant on the drugs. Resource shortages may prevent the drug from being produced in large quantities, causing a price spike. 
In general, an Augmented Trainer or Pokémon can go a number of days equal to their unused Augmenta-
tion Capacity before they need another dose of anti-rejection drugs. After that point, their body starts to reject their Augmentations, causing malfunctions, injury, and possibly eventual death. 
Essence Loss
In some settings it may literally be dehumanizing to replace parts of your body with cybernetic parts or artificial organs. The process of becoming augmented damages a Pokémon or Trainer’s life force or Essence, permanently causing them ill effects. Obviously, this effect makes a strong statement on the morality of cy-bernetics use and is usually appropriate only for soft sci-fi campaigns. Rather than consider Augmentations limited by Capacity, think of each Pokémon and Trainer as starting with 10 Essence, with each Augmenta-tion subtracting Essence equal to its Capacity value. 
At the following milestones of Essence loss, the Pokémon or Trainer suffers deleterious effects. 
Essence Value Effect
7 or Lower -1 Base HP
4 or Lower The target loses any Aura-related Capabilities they 
have, cannot learn or use Ghost-Type moves, or Moves with the Aura Keyword.
2 or Lower The target becomes one step Weaker to Ghost-Type Moves. If they were previously Immune, Ghost-Type Moves become Neutral.
0 Essence -2 Base HP*
*Each effect is cumulative with those above it. Thus, a Pokemon with 0 Essence would have its base HP Stat reduced by -3.
Exception : Ghost Type Pokemon’s Essence functions very differently, and thus cannot have Cyberwear. If a 
Pokemon is permanently made to be Ghost-Type, it loses all Cyberwear (and loses all penalties from Es-
sence loss).
60
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Vehicles and Mecha
While most Trainers will simply ride their Pokémon to get from place to place, vehicles can still be import-
ant and convenient. Pokémon need to rest, and it’s easier to transport large groups of Trainers in a vehicle than assembling large numbers of Pokémon. 
For the most part, vehicles don’t require much in the way of specific stats and mechanics. Simply make a 
motorbike cost about 7500, a car cost about 10,000, a boat about 15-20,000, and private airplanes 30,000 or more. Often, a group of trainers will split this cost among themselves and share the vehicle.
And for most vehicles, it is simple enough to just decide 
what stats you want to give it and choose a few Moves, 
just like you would if you were designing a homebrew 
Pokémon or any non-Pokémon, non-Trainer enemy. 
But of course, you’re not reading this section for run 
of the mill vehicles. Y ou want to know how to handle 
vehicles in combat and more in-depth options on 
how to stat out vehicles. Much of the groundwork 
has already been laid there – there is no reason, for example, why you couldn’t attach existing weapons 
onto vehicles the way they are attached to Pokébots. 
Whether using the rules below or a simpler form of vehicles, consider letting players build their own vehi-
cles as long as they have the skill (Adept Technology Education is enough) and materials and workshop.
art by strahl at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=112607
Vehicle Construction Guidelines
These rules presume you’re statting vehicles of a smallor personal scale, such as armored jeeps, tanks, militaryhelicopters, hoverbikes, and other vehicles that tend tofit no more than a handful of people inside. Look to thelater portions of the vehicles section for how to handlestatting and battling vehicles of a larger scale. 
Vehicles normally have only HP , defense, and special defense stats. Vehicles move on their driver’s speed 
stat, and Trainers in vehicles often shoot using their own weapons, though vehicle-mounted weapons will have their own stats specific to the weapon involved. Vehicles are immune to status effects, cannot have Injuries, and don’t suffer from effects such as vacuum or hazardous environment exposure. Similar to Pokébots, vehicles become inoperable when they hit 0 Hit Points and are destroyed at -200% Hit Points, turning into scrap worth 1/3 of its total cost. Vehicles can only recover Hit Points through being repaired, which is an Extended Action that costs 1 per 2 Hit Points repaired. Vehicles take super-effective damage from Fire, Electric, and Ground Type attacks, but Levitate and Sky vehicles are exempt from the latter. Less can be more! These guidelines may be too restricting for some GMs, in which case it’s better to stat out ve-
hicles just according to intu-ition and what feels right.

61
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
However, in place of Injuries, vehicles suffer Breaches, which occur any time the vehicle takes 50% or more 
of its maximum Hit Points in damage in a single attack and for each increment of 25% of its maximum Hit Points it has lost. Essentially, these operate like Injuries but at 25% Hit Points increments and without maxi-mum Hit Points reduction. 
Additionally, each vehicle has a value called Breach Security and a value called Breach Capacity. Once a 
vehicle has as many Breaches as its Breach Security, all attacks targeted at the vehicle also deal damage to any passengers the vehicle has, though this damage is resisted one step further than usual. Reaching Breach Security also causes passengers to suffer effects such as vacuum or hazardous environment exposure that the vehicle protected them from. The Breach Capacity of a vehicle represents how many Breaches it can suf-fer before becoming inoperable, but not destroyed. If a vehicle ever has as many Breaches as twice its Breach Capacity, it is destroyed. When repairing vehicles as an extended action, it costs 100 to repair a Breach. 
Vehicle Templates 
These are some basic templates and also roughly correspond to some of the vehicles listed at the top of this section. Note that these stats are fairly simplified and don’t include values such as Power for the vehicles (largely because the Power scale is not designed for large vehicles and thus is difficult to apply here). For the sake of simplicity, you can assume the vehicle takes no penalty for carrying the passenger size it is designed for. The movement speed values for these vehicles also assume combat maneuverability and not a vehicle’s full speed. A car might be faster than most Pokémon, but it certainly doesn’t turn as well, and you won’t drive at top speed in the middle of a battle. 
When using the template below, double the cost for using Swim if you want the vehicle to operate underwa-
ter as well. When adding a movement type instead of merely replacing one, use 1.5 times the cost. Pay the Sky speed of the vehicle and double the entire price if you want the vehicle to be space-worthy. 
Personal Size Open Vehicle
Cost : 
$7500 
80 Hit Points, 5 Defense, 5 Special Defense, Overland 9, Breach Security 0, Breach Capacity 3For Swim instead of Overland, add 
$2500. 
For Levitate instead of Overland, add $7500.
For Sky instead of Overland, add $12,500. 
This template is suitable for a small vehicle holding one person that is open to the air. For Overland vehicles, this can be a motorbike, a scooter, or even a personal mecha frame. For Swim vehicles, this represents an uncovered boat. Levitate vehicles could include hoverbikes and large hoverboards. Sky vehicles represent small personal helicopters or more advanced aircraft if your sci-fi setting is suitable for it. 
Basic Group Vehicle 
Cost : 
$10,000
120 Hit Points, 10 Defense, 10 Special Defense, Overland 7, Breach Security 1, Breach Capacity 4For Swim instead of Overland add 
$5000.
For Levitate instead of Overland, add $12,500.
For Sky instead of Overland, add $20,000. 
62
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
This template is your standard car, minivan, or SUV , or a sci-fi equivalent. As a general rule, it can hold 5-6 
people at the maximum. For Overland vehicles this can be a multi-seat mecha. For Swim vehicles, this is your standard boat with a below decks area and a room or two. For Levitate and Sky vehicles you have of course your hovercars and flying cars, though this could just as easily represent a decent sized helicopter or even a small jet or space craft. 
Large Group Vehicle
Cost : 
$20,000
250 Hit Points, 15 Defense, 15 Special Defense, Overland 6, Breach Security 2, Breach Capacity 6For Swim instead of Overland, add 
$7500.
For Levitate instead of Overland, add $17,500.
For Sky instead of Overland, add $27,500. 
These vehicles seat upwards of a dozen people and are at the top end of what a typical party of PTU char -
acters will likely want to purchase size-wise. Overland vehicles of this size are large trucks or RVs. Swim vehicles are larger boats such as small ferries. Levitate and Sky vehicles go into the realm of personal jets and large transport helicopters, or their hover technology equivalents. 
Vehicle Upgrade Templates
The templates of course represent only the bare bones of what you can buy when vehicle shopping. If you’re using this guide, you no doubt want to add more to these options and customize your vehicles to a greater degree than is available by default. 
These upgrades are listed with prices for each size of vehicle in order of Personal Size, Basic Group, then 
Large Group. Some upgrades are listed with a Rank and work similarly to Ranked Features; you can buy those upgrades up to a number of times equal to the Rank.
The values between / marks denote they’re intended for Personal / Basic / Large vehicles. 
Structural Integrity Upgrade 
[Rank 3]Cost : 
$2000 / $3000 / $4000
Effect : Add 20 / 40 / 60 Hit Points to the vehicle, 
according to its size. 
Armored Plating Upgrade 
[Rank 2] Cost : 
$1000 / $1500 / $2000
Effect : Add 4 / 6 / 8 to the vehicle’s Defense and 
Special Defense. 
Breach-Resistance Armor
Cost : $1500 / $2250 / $3000
Effect : Add 2 to the vehicle’s Breach Security and its 
Breach Capacity. Reinforced AlloysCost : 
$5000 / $7500 / $10,000
Effect : The vehicle resists Normal, Fighting, Ice, 
Rock, and Grass. It is immune to Poison.  
Vehicle Speed Upgrade
[Rank 2] Cost : 
$500 / $750 / $1000
Effect : Add 1 to all of the vehicle’s movement 
speeds. 
Shield Generator
Cost : $3000 / $4000 / $5000
Effect : The vehicle gains 20 / 40 / 60 temporary Hit 
Points at the beginning of each Scene. 
63
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Vehicle Weapons
Pokémon often make the best weapons for vehicles. Why bother with a cannon if you can install a perch for 
your Blastoise? But the simplest way to add weapons to a vehicle if you must is to treat vehicle weapons as 
you would a Trainer’s. A Laser Rifle isn’t very different from a mounted laser cannon on a hoverbike, and it’s easy to imagine a mecha frame wielding a Laser Sword. As with those weapons, it’s easy to make your own as well, for example a Gatling gun that uses Spike Cannon or a railgun that shoots Stone Edge.
When firing these vehicle mounted weapons, however, a Trainer’s own innate combat ability is irrelevant. It 
is recommended to use the optional rule that the attack stat for a weapon is equal to three times the user’s Technology Education Ranks. A Trainer can always fire a vehicle-mounted weapon as long as their Technol-ogy Education Rank is at least Adept or if they have the Weapon of Choice Edge matching that weapon. 
Y ou might consider that weapons mounted on vehicles are 
usually more powerful than their hand-held counterparts. As an optional rule, you may allow vehicle-mounted weapons to have a Tier ranging from 0 to 4. This Tier value is added to the multiplier of 3 that is applied to a user’s Technology Education Ranks to get a final attack stat value. Each Tier adds 50% to the weapon’s normal cost, and it is recommended that GMs reg-ulate access to higher Tier weapons. Tier 3 and 4 weapons are highly advanced weapons usually available only to specialized military forces. 
Advanced Vehicle Customization
It doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to repeat what’s been said before, but many of the rules regarding alternate materi-als for Pokébots can easily be adapted for vehicles. In ad-dition, some vehicles can be modified for intelligent Pokémon with a Pokémon Edge to take the wheel just as easily as a Trainer might. 
Vehicle Training 
Prerequisites: Appropriate body typeCost : 1 Tutor Point
Effect : The Pokémon may drive vehicles that are appropriately outfitted to the species as a standard action. 
Note that with the aid of psionic materials, “appropriate body type” here may simply mean a Pokémon of the Psychic Type. Pokémon with the Wired Capability do not require this Pokémon Edge in order to con-trol vehicles so long as they can get direct access to the electronics and control system for the vehicle in question. Wired Pokémon may also natively access and control weapons systems that are built into vehicles. Consider expanding these qualifications to include Pokémon that have received the Datajack Augmentation as well, depending on the tech level of the setting and thus sophistication of the Augmentation. 
Vehicle Driving and Combat Rules
art by strahl at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=112607
64
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Driving a vehicle in combat is a standard action. If a character ever needs to make a skill check for perform-
ing tricky maneuvers with vehicles, it’s recommended to use either Focus or Acrobatics. It’s very difficult to maneuver a vehicle while in a stressful situation such as combat, and the activity demands your complete attention. Usually, this means if you’re in a vehicle and you want to continue Shifting while in combat, you should have a gunner with you if you also want to make attacks. However, if you have at least Expert Rank in Focus or Technology Education, then you can operate a vehicle as a Swift Action.
Vehicles become damaged in the heat of combat, and passengers may need to make quick patchwork repairs 
to keep the vehicle operable, especially if they’re in danger of being exposed to a hazardous environment. However, these repairs are only temporary solutions and cannot truly repair a vehicle’s overall structural integrity. If a vehicle suffers enough Breaches, patchwork repairs will not be enough. An Edge is required for Trainers to repair vehicles on the fly. 
Emergency Repairs
Prerequisites: Novice Technology EducationEffect : Y ou may repair vehicles as a standard action by making a Technology Education roll. Y ou pay the 
amount of your roll and repair that much Hit Point damage to the vehicle. If the vehicle has any Breach-es you may Patch one of them. Patched Breaches no longer count towards Breach Security but still count toward Breach Capacity. 
art by xiv at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=299368
65
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Vehicles and Large Scale Combat 
Often in sci-fi, particularly in space operas, battles take on a truly epic scale. Large spacecraft the size of 
modern aircraft carriers duke it out, and in such a context, the actions of the players can seem rather irrel-evant in the scheme of things. Y ou want to avoid this as much as possible, of course! Even in these massive battles, whether they take place between naval fleets or space ships, the players’ actions should be of the utmost importance in determining the outcome of events. 
How do you accomplish this? The simplest way is to reduce the focus of the conflict down to a single small-
er point in the battle. Perhaps boarders have warped onto the flagship of the fleet, and the players must battle their way through them to reclaim the bridge. 
Sometimes though, the players want to take their souped 
up space ship and start dismantling the enemy flagship bit by bit, getting into the fray of the battle along with their allies and chipping away at their target until it finally crumbles into a cloud of debris floating in the emptiness of space. 
In this case, you can extrapolate the rules for smaller scale vehicle combat to the large scale. A city-sized 
battlecruiser is going to have several orders of magnitude more Hit Points than a Large Group Vehicle, but on a scale of purely vehicle to vehicle combat, it makes sense to simulate the combatants as such. 
That’s simple enough, but what happens when the players want to take their individual smaller ships or their 
Gundam-esque mecha and cut a larger battleship down to size? In this case, the easiest way to handle this is to model the larger ship as a series of connected vehicles, each acting as their own map and battlefield. For example, a Basic Group Vehicle might be used to model the bridge area of the ship, and it will have different stats, armor, and weapons than the more heavily armed sides of the ship with the weapon systems, modeled as a series of Basic Group Vehicles on each side of the ship, or the back end of the ships where the engines are, modeled as a Large Group Vehicle. 
In these battles, the Hit Points of the overall larger ship is irrelevant. Instead, assign it a Breach Capacity 
level.  This is two-thirds of the total Breach Capacity of all the connected vehicles that make up the ship plus an additional 4 for each vehicle with Breach-Resistance Armor. When calculating Breaches for the purposes of seeing if the ship is inoperable or destroyed, use this value counting the total Breaches from all segments of the ship. Individually disabling entire sections of ship adds the appropriate amount of Breach to the total taken, though destroying a segment triples this value. Each section may have its own defender Pokémon, 
and vehicles, weapon turrets, and even Pok ébots. Even while players are on another section of the ship, 
weapons from other segments will target them, so they may prioritize targeting those sections of the ship. Obviously, destroying the part of the ship that houses the engines is the easiest way to stop a spaceship. 
This explanation is rather complicated, so let’s go ahead and demonstrate this with an example space battle. 
As you will soon see, these battles can take a very, very long time to resolve, so save them for special occasions and abstract out the conflict whenever it isn’t important. Run while you can. Don’t 
say I didn’t warn you. These rules can make for very long fights. Use them sparingly.

66
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Large Scale Battle Example
This is the ship we will be laying waste to today. There’s no need to get into the specifics of the turn-by-turn 
battle, but the overall gist of running this combat will be explained. The Maelstrom Dreadnought ship has descended into the atmosphere of a planet where our players have now decided to attack it with a combina-tion of airborne Pokémon and their vehicles. 
This Dreadnought can roughly be split into eight segments, each statted as a vehicle. The two front sections 
of the ship that look like mouthes, two segments on each side along the sides for a total of four, a command tower, and an engine segment. 
Each segment except for the command tower is a Large Group Vehicle, meaning at a base level it has 6 
Breach Capacity. The command tower is being treated as a Basic Group Vehicle, giving it a Breach Capac-ity of 4. We’ll say both the front segments and the Command Tower have received the Breach-Resistance Armor upgrades, giving them each an additional 2 Breach Capacity. The total Breach Capacity of the seg-ments is 52, making the Breach Capacity of the entire ship 34 under the two-thirds rule with 12 more from Breach-Resistance Armor for a total of 46. It will take that much Breach to render the ship inoperable, and it will take twice that to destroy it completely. 
Focus firing on the part of the players can easily disable an entire segment of the ship in as little as a single 
volley, dealing a swift 6 Breach out of the 34 needed to disable the entire ship. It may seem that as a result it would be very easy to take down this ship, especially if aiming for the engines.
Things are rarely ever that simple. The engines, as important as they are, may have Reinforced Alloys, Struc-
tural Integrity upgrades, and Armored Plating that make them difficult to take down, and all the while, two of the middle segments of the ship rain fire down on the players, and the other two release flying Pokémon to deal with. It may then be in the players’ best interest to disable those parts of the ship first.
art by KaranaK at http://karanak.deviantart.com/
67
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
art by KaranaK at http://karanak.deviantart.com/Even worse, the front segments of the ship may have custom Shield Generators the GM created for this 
battle. Instead of providing temporary Hit Points to one segment of the ship, they provide their bonus to all other segments of the ship as long as at least one Shield Generator is still active. This may make them a priority target to destroy first as well. And perhaps throughout this process, enemy reinforcements are arriving from outside the immediate battlefield to give aid. 
On other ship designs, the ship may have a main cannon that takes up an entire segment on its own. If the 
ship is doing battle with other ships, this may take the form of a Hyper Beam cannon or similarly powerful Move, and it may not even be limited to Daily frequency. 
In any case, each segment of the ship should be statted out in this manner, though you can broadly simplify 
if necessary. Destroying or disabling each segment should produce its own unique benefit in addition to any Breach that’s caused. 
Our players in this case send out a Dragonite, a Charizard, and a Fearow as they assault the ship. The Drag-
onite and Charizard, along with their Trainers, prioritize the front segments of ship, taking out the Shield Generators. The Fearow and its Trainer, on the other hand, begins to work at one of the side segments hous-ing turrets. 
If they all disable their targets, they will have dealt 22 Breach in total, about halfway towards disabling the 
entire ship. Let’s say the Fearow’s Trainer was especially enterprising and managed not only to disable one of the side segments of the ship but destroyed it entirely. This would add an additional 12 Breach to the pool, making a total of 34. Disabling a few more segments will disable the ship in its entirety, though it will still be quite a lot of work to cause the ship to be completely destroyed. 
art by metaphor at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=86388
68
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Advanced Pokétech Systems
Some pieces of technology just don’t fall neatly into the categories set out here. Here are a few technologies 
that require either more explanation or their own dedicated systems to handle but don’t quite fit elsewhere.
Augmented Reality
Augmented reality, AR for short, refers to viewing the physi-cal real world environment with the addition of digital infor -
mation, usually in the form of an overlay. Note that this isn’t virtual reality. Y ou still see the real world, but perhaps your glasses add arrows and directions for a map app directly to your 
view, or maybe looking at a sign in a foreign language calls up a 
translation box in the corner of your vision.
This technology is already starting to be put to use in the real 
world, but it’s taken to much higher levels in science fiction. Some new textbooks contain markers that can be scanned by phones and tablets to provide supplementary information. Smartphone apps and devices like Google Glass allow people to put this technology to everyday use. If you have a 3DS, you’ve 
probably seen some augmented reality at work, and Pok édex 
3D is a good example of it.
What’s augmented reality like in a sci-fi setting? Societies that make heavy use of AR are often ‘always on-
line’ , to the point where the Internet isn’t something people think about going on and using. Rather, it’s been integrated into everyday life in a way that people think about it about as much as people now think about using electricity. Computers and phones no longer need physical interfaces if AR exists and everyone has at least a basic Datajack Augmentation. It would take merely a thought to bring up Wikipedia in a floating dig-ital display to the side of your field of vision, making it easy to reference while walking and doing everyday things. Even if augmentations aren’t used, eyeglasses or goggles could easily replace most traditional screen technologies. 
Not much in particular needs to be done mechanics-wise to integrate AR into a sci-fi setting, but being as it 
is such an interesting and ubiquitous concept, here are some ways to consider using AR in your sci-fi cam-paigns, as well as items that might exist to facilitate AR use. 
Basic Augmented Reality Items
AR Interfaces: How do people interact with augmented reality? Eyeglasses, goggles, and camera-equipped tablets and phones are one way that are already developing, but in the future people might use special con-
tact lenses or simply have all the information piped directly into their brain via Datajacks. 
Tactile Feedback Glove: It can be hard to use a computer interface that seems to be floating in mid-air but 
isn’t actually tangible. A common solution is to wear gloves that give haptic feedback when ‘touching’ digital objects. 
art by pokemoa at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=3542036
69
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Augmented Reality and Pokémon Trainers
Medical Monitors: Pokémon Trainers always have to be careful not to push their Pokémon companions too hard in training and battling. Biomedical implants that monitor a Pokémon’s biological signs could give Trainers instant feedback on how severe their Pokémon’s injuries are in the middle of battle, allowing them to call off a battle instantly if their Pokémon are in any serious danger. 
Personal A.I. Assistants: Porygon may be common personal assistant Pokémon, managing a Trainer’s 
schedule and other information through their augmented reality interfaces. Alerts for upcoming meetings, shopping lists, and more could be handled by a Porygon, leaving Trainers more time to focus on training. Obviously, upgraded models such as Porygon2 and Porygon-Z are generally more effective A.I. assistants. 
Pokédexes : A rather obvious use. Instead of needing to hold up a phone or Pokédex to a Pokémon to scan 
it, Trainers can simply look toward a Pokémon and get information on the species instantly on the side of 
their vision, allowing them to battle and attempt capture unimpeded.
Pokémon Contests: Clever use of AR 
technology can supplement a Pokémon’s performance in a Contest, allowing Trainers 
a variety of programs they can execute to add 
flashy effects that may give bonuses to Appeal 
Rolls. 
Pokémon Team Registration: To prevent 
Pokémon theft, Pokémon are registered to a 
particular Trainer ID, which must be shown 
via Pokédex when withdrawing or depositing 
Pokémon. What this means is that there is always a record of which Pokémon a Trainer is 
carrying at any given time. While making this 
information publicly viewable is not likely due 
to privacy concerns and issues of fairness in 
Pokémon battles, law enforcement agents may have special license to view this info at a whim 
by looking at anyone, which can tell them if 
criminals they are pursuing are packing dan-
gerous Pokémon or not. 
Pokémon Tracking: It’s unfortunate, but 
Pokémon thieves probably do still exist in the 
future. Tracking chips and an AR interface can 
make it easier to track a thief before they get 
too far away, and Pokémon who get lost or sep-
arated from their Trainers become much easier 
to find. 
art by e neko at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1477358
70
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Cyberworld Hacking
Hacking is a staple of sci-fi stories and can be handled simply using skill rolls. In most grounded and real-
istic sci-fi campaigns, this is all you’ll do, without the need for a complex subsystem. However, the glorified image of a hacker descending into a virtual world to directly combat the security programs of a computer system is a common trope. Hacking can be just as much of a battle as a Pokémon battle in soft sci-fi where all hackers have virtual avatars, and hacking programs and tools are the weapons used in the digital world. 
In a Pokémon sci-fi game, Pokémon play the roles of both hacking tools and security systems. Depend-
ing on how a Porygon or Rotom is outfitted, they can be used to detect digital intruders or to perform the intrusion themselves. The basic setup for cyberworld hacking is as follows: 
The hacker intends to break into a set of servers on 
a network, either to steal information or modify the servers in some way. If the hacker cannot access the network the servers are on, then obviously he or she may not attempt to hack the server. Sometimes servers are kept offline, requiring physical access to hack.
The hacker dives in to the network or the server direct-
ly. A Datajack Augmentation is necessary to do this, and bypassing the initial security to access the network or server is often a Technology Education check. 
The hacker’s physical equipment such as weapons and 
armor are useless here, but they can bring along any programs and Pokémon they want into the virtual world – presuming they can dive too. Porygon, Rotom, and any other Pokémon with the Wired capability are automatically capable of diving into computer systems and networks. Pokémon with Datajack Augmentations may be taught to as well through a new Edge. 
Digital Avatar
Prerequisites: Datajack AugmentationCost : 1 Tutor Point
Effect : The Pokémon may dive into computer systems 
and networks and gains a 2d6 in Technology Education.
Once inside the network, you can run the hacking sequence much like any other normal adventure. Unless 
the hacker has gotten direct physical access to the server they’re aiming for, they will have to explore the 
digital world of the computer network they’re infiltrating. Instead of wandering through forests while avoid-
ing wild Arbok and pitfalls, the Trainer and his Pokémon sneak through digital corridors, filled with the file 
trees of normal office computers, hazardous firewalls that act like Stealth Rocks, and sentry Porygons. While much of this is the same, digital battling and stealing the information from servers requires special rules.
art by tetori at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=836974
It’s Pory in his rebellious teenage years! He wouldn’t let me use the baby pictures. 

71
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Digital Battle Rules
Diving into and exiting networks both require a Standard Action, and time passes as normal while hacking. Diving into a network normally requires either Adept Technology Education or the Wired Capability. If a 
Pokémon or Trainer fails to meet this condition, they must choose an Anchor out of allied Pok émon and 
Trainers who do meet this criterion. They must enter the digital world with this Anchor, and if their Anchor 
is ever forcefully ejected, they are ejected too and lose half their maximum Integrity.  Any given Anchor can 
only support a number of allies equal to their Technology Education Rank. Trainers may issue orders to 
their Pokémon from outside the digital world via Datajack connection. 
For simplicity, Pokémon and their Trainers keep their stats in the digital world, though instead of HP they 
have Integrity  using half their Technology Education Rank in place of the multiplier of 3 in the HP formu-
la. As an optional rule, Trainers use Technology Education Ranks times 3 for both attack stats and Focus Ranks times 3 for all defense stats. This stops beefy combat Trainers from being the best hackers by default. 
Damage causes a loss of Integrity, which represents mental stress, corrupted files and other damage to the 
data and programs of the hacker. When Integrity is reduced to 0, a Pokémon or Trainer is ejected from the digital world and is also stunned for anywhere from half a minute to several minutes depending on the de-tails of your setting and technology level. Additionally, Trainers have a new Edge for digital survivability:
Defensive Hacking
Prerequisites: Adept Technology Education, Novice Focus, Datajack AugmentationEffect : Y ou may add your Focus Ranks as additional Damage Reduction while in digital battles. Y ou may 
apply this Damage Reduction to Technology Education attacks. 
Many equivalents of basic restorative items for Integrity exist in the form of programs that Trainers can 
bring with them and execute when diving into computer networks. Just as when Pokémon or Trainers are fainted in meatspace, or real world, battles, Integrity must be raised above 0 again before diving back in. 
Weapons and armor also have equivalents in the form of programs that augment someone’s hacking skill. 
GMs can choose to use the same stats as existing weapons and armor to save on time or create their own. 
In addition to their normal attacks and Moves, Trainers and Pokémon with a Technology Education Skill 
may attempt to directly attack the code of an opponent in the digital world. Doing so is a Technology Edu-cation roll that automatically deals damage equal to the roll to the target, ignoring damage reduction. 
Server Cores are the prizes for hackers at the end of their digital adventures, holding the crucial data that 
they seek. Often, Server Cores are tied to several defense programs and Pokémon, acting as Anchors for them, and taking down the Server Core directly will disable those defenses. However, gunning directly for the Server Core can be dangerous, and it is often safer to take out defenders first. Server Cores have defense, evasion, and Integrity according to how secure they are but usually don’t have less than 75 Integrity. 
A Server Core can be damaged like any other digital entity, but any damage to their Integrity from any 
means other than Technology Education rolls damages the data inside rather than allowing it to be extract-ed safely. Once a Server Core’s Integrity has been reduced to 0 using Technology Education attacks, the hacker has successfully taken the information they seek or made the changes to the server they want. 
72
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Additional Programs for Digital Battles
ICE: Short for Intrusion Countermeasure Electronics, ICE are defense programs used against hackers. 
Active ICE can be built using the same rules for Pokébots. These ICE never need Anchors. More broadly speaking, Rotom, Porygon, and even Datajacked Pokémon could be considered forms of ICE too. 
Data Snare
Cost : 
$2000
Effect : A large amount of malicious dummy data 
that poses as a Server Core. Attempts to extract or 
modify data through Technology Education attacks instead deal the attacker’s roll back to them in Integ-rity Damage. Obviously, once triggered, the hacker then knows to avoid this false core. Data Snares can be damaged and destroyed by other attacks and have 50 Integrity with no damage reduction or evasion. 
Net Shield
Cost :  
$800
Effect : A one-time use program that grants 20 
temporary Integrity. Used by hackers on risky jobs. 
Neural Blade
Cost : $10,000
Effect : A highly dangerous and illegal modifica-
tion for ICE. This is a Held Item for Pokémon or Pokébots and an Accessory Item for Trainers. In-stead of dealing Integrity damage, the user of Neu-ral Blade deals Hit Point damage directly to their target’s physical body, though the damage is treated as resisted one step further than normal. Hackers reduced to zero Hit Points don’t automatically jack out of a network – someone must disconnect them.Static Field GeneratorCost : 
$1500
Effect : A specialized form of ICE that acts as a 
supplement to another piece of ICE. This is a Held Item for Pokémon or Pokébots and an Accessory Item for Trainers. The nature of this ICE makes it impossible to deploy in networks you don’t control, which means its usual use is defensive. All opponents’ attempts to attack using Technology Education rolls suffer a -1d6 circumstance penalty. 
Stimhack
Cost : 
$5000
Effect : An illegal program that overloads a hacker’s 
hardware. An Accessory for Trainers that allows them to add 2d6 to Technology Education attacks as a Free Action at the cost of 1 AP and 1 Injury. 
Wall of Thorns
Cost : 
$1000
Effect : A piece of ICE linked to a Server Core. When 
the Server Core is attacked by a Technology Edu-cation attack, the attacker suffers Integrity Damage as if they triggered the Rough Skin Ability. Wall of Thorns itself has 25 Integrity and can be targeted by Technology Education Attacks only.
Spicing Up Cyberworld HackingOf course, these items are only the beginning, and GMs are encouraged to come up with their own ICE and other programs. Keep your players guessing about the defenses deployed against them. For example, they might face Black ICE – capable of killing intruders, such as with Neural Blades. 
Possibly the worst thing you could do in a hacking adventure is to make it an incredibly straight-forward 
romp through a series of battles to get to a Server Core. When your players enter a network, they should be greeted by a virtual labyrinth, with potential Server Cores spread throughout branching paths. Not all ICE should be immediately active, and players should be able to tell, with successful Perception or Technology 
Education rolls, which paths hold more ICE ready to be activated. The most defended paths won’t necessar -
ily lead to Server Cores; the end of a well-guarded digital hallway could hold a Data Snare waiting to finish 
off a weakened hacker. The real server may host fewer but much more powerful ICE.
For even more fun, run a battle occurring simultaneously in the real and digital worlds. 
73
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Pokémon Dream World
Do Porygon dream of Mareep? Now’s your chance to find out through the Pokémon Dream World, 
a mediated reality that draws from a dreamer’s perceptions in their unconscious sleeping mind and supplements them with technology. 
To enter the Dream World, a Pokémon 
must go to sleep and be recalled into their Poké Ball, to be plugged into a Dream Machine that will scan their brains and read their dreams directly from their energized form. The specific 
design of a Dream Machine will vary 
from campaign to campaign, but the 
machines will always require Dream Mist to operate. Three units of Dream Mist are needed to send one Pokémon to the Dream World for 8 hours. A Pokémon with the Dream Mist capabil-ity produces one unit a day. 
The term Dream “World” is a bit of a 
misnomer, because this mediated real-ity doesn’t exist external to the dreams and mind of the Pokémon being sent to the Dream World. Once a Pokémon wakes up, the Dream World they were sent to fails to exist, and the next time they are sent to the Dream World, it is a different reality, born from different dreams and perceptions. 
However, the Dream Machine that sends Pokémon into the Dream World can sustain multiple Pokémon at 
once, and it is possible to have all of the linked Pokémon share the same dream and thus the same Dream World. As long as at least one Pokémon from that dream remains connected into the Dream Machine, that Dream World will will persist and remain for Pokémon to revisit. 
From outside the Dream World, Trainers can monitor their Pokémon’s dreams and influence them in subtle 
ways. Dream manipulation is an imprecise and esoteric art, and it takes training or a very good intuition for a Trainer to learn how to consistently produce results in shaping and studying their Pokémon’s dreams. This 
is represented by a new Trainer Edge:
Dream Architect
Prerequisites: Adept Intuition, Pokémon Education, or Technology EducationEffect : Y ou know how to operate Dream Machines and can use them to study and influence a Pokémon’s 
dreams. 
Dream Machines can be found at major Pokémon research labs and are also available in a portable form at 
GM discretion, with prices usually at least 10,000 and often higher. 
art by pokemoa at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=3542036
74
Chapter Two: Gear and Technology
Uses and Effects of the Dream World
What can you actually do with the Dream World? Viewing a Pokémon’s dreams can give you a much better insight into a Pokémon’s psychology and personality, and Pokémon that a Trainer has studied the dreams of will often rise faster in loyalty – presuming, of course, the Pokémon consents to having its dreams observed. While the Dream World allows a Trainer a view into their Pokémon’s mind that allows for greater empathy and understanding, this can be seen as a very intrusive affair by some Pokémon, though usually only intelli-gent Pokémon species understand enough of what they’re experiencing to even think of raising objections. 
Once tapped into a Pokémon’s dreams, the Trainer operating the Dream Machine may make Intuition, 
Pokémon Education, or Technology Education rolls to attempt to change and control the dream. The diffi-
culty of this task will vary depending on how big and how precise the changes are. 
This has many applications, ranging from a crude and deceptive form of interrogation, to trying to coax out 
of a comatose Pokémon its last memories before fainting, to helping a Pokémon overcome phobias. 
The Dream World and Pokémon Skills
The most potent effect of the Dream Machine, however, is in shaping a Pokémon’s natural skills and inclina-tions. Many Pokémon have a skill background that dictates how their natural skills differ from the norm in 
their species. A skillful scout Pokémon may have increased 
skill ranks in Stealth and Perception but lower Athletics and 
Combat relative to the rest of its species. 
Through multiple sessions in a Dream Machine, a Pokémon 
can gradually be taught a new mindset and overall approach 
that changes this skill background. This process costs the 
Pokémon 1 Tutor Points. The difficulty for this task is 6 times 
the number of skills affected by the change in background. 
For example, changing the skillful scout from above to a 
focused fighter who has increased Combat and Focus but 
lower Athletics and Stealth would have a difficulty of 24 
because Stealth, Perception, Focus, and Combat are all affected by this change. 
Each 8 hour session in a Dream Machine allows one roll of 
Intuition, Pokémon Education, or Technology Education, 
with cumulative progress being made. For example, after 
rolling a 14 on the first session, the Trainer needs only roll a 
10 in their second session to finish the change. The Trainer 
must wait at least one day between rolls to make progress.
If the Pokémon is unwilling to make this change in its 
personality, double the difficulty, and the process greatly 
lowers the Pokémon’s loyalty. 
art by tetori at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=836974
Chapter 3
Trainer 
Classes
76
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Sci-Fi Features and Edges
Throughout this book thus far, there have been a number of Features, Edges and PokéEdges sprinkled in to 
help Trainers and Pokémon interact with the new rules and items in the book. For ease of use, all of those will be compiled in one spot here, in addition to a couple new additions geared toward supplementing the Trainer classes that will be featured later in the chapter. 
Trainer Edges
General EdgesDefensive HackingPrerequisites: Adept Technology Education, Novice Focus, Datajack AugmentationEffect : Y ou may add your Focus Ranks as additional 
Damage Reduction while in digital battles. Y ou may apply this Damage Reduction to Technology Educa-tion attacks.
Dream Architect
Prerequisites: Adept Intuition, Pokémon Education, or Technology EducationEffect : Y ou know how to operate Dream Machines 
and can use them to study and influence a Pokémon’s dreams. 
Emergency Repairs
Prerequisites: Novice Technology EducationEffect : Y ou may repair vehicles as a standard action 
by making a Technology Education roll. Y ou pay the amount of your roll and repair that much Hit Point damage to the vehicle. If the vehicle has any Breaches you may Patch one of them. Patched Breaches no longer count towards Breach Security but still count toward Breach Capacity.  
Glitched Existence
Prerequisites: Exposure to Glitch Phenomena, GM PermissionEffect : Y ou gain +2 to all Skill rolls to deal with 
Glitch phenomena. 
Gravity Training
Prerequisites: Novice Athletics or FocusEffect : Y ou gain the Gravitic Tolerance capability at 
a value of 1-3 or 2-4. Pokébot Training
Prerequisites: Novice Technology
Effect : Y ou may control a Pokébot with Complexity 
up to your Technology Rank by using a Pokémon turn.
Psychic Navigator
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Psychic), 
Adept Perception or Focus
Effect : Y ou gain the Psychic Navigator Capability. 
Quick CasePrerequisites: Novice Technology Education
Effect : Y ou may remove a Case from a Poké Ball as a 
Swift Action. Y ou may apply a Case to a Poké Ball as 
a Shift Action. (Normally these would be Shift and 
Standard Actions respectively)
Shock Resistance
Prerequisites: Novice Technology Education
Effect : Y ou don’t suffer Augmentation Shock from 
Electric Type damage unless it is Massive Damage. 
77
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Trainer Features
General Features
Type Sync
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection; a Type-Linked Class*; Adept Medicine, Occult, or Tech Education. Special – Extended ActionTarget: Y our PokémonEffect : The Target gains the Type of your Elemental 
Connection as an additional Type, or has one of their Types replaced by that Type. See the Type Changes section (page 436) for more information and sugges-tions. A Pokémon may be targeted by Type Sync only once. This Feature may be performed One Time for each Rank above Untrained you have of your highest of Medicine, Occult, or Tech Education, up to a max-imum of 4 times at Master Rank.
*Type-Linked Classes include Type Ace and all 
Elementalist Classes, all of which are linked to their respective Types. Additionally, Aura Guardian is linked to Fighting; and Telekinetic, Telepath, and Warper are linked to Psychic. Obviously, your Type Linked Class must match your Elemental Connection to apply for Type Sync!Pokémon Edges
Digital AvatarPrerequisites: Datajack AugmentationCost : 1 Tutor Point
Effect : The Pokémon may dive into computer sys-
tems and networks and gains a 3d6 in Technology Education if it did not previously have a Technology Education Skill. 
Gravity Training
Prerequisites: NoneCost : 1 Tutor Point
Effect : The Pokémon gains two steps to allocate in 
any direction to expand its Gravitic Tolerance capa-bility. If it has none, it may acquire one by allocating steps starting from its Home Gravity.
Psychic Navigator 
Prerequisites: Psychic Type, level 20Cost : 2 Tutor Points
Effect : Grants the Psychic Navigator Capability.
Vehicle Training Prerequisites: Appropriate body typeCost : 1 Tutor Point
Effect : The Pokémon may drive vehicles that are 
appropriately outfitted to the species as a standard action. 
78
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Playing Non-Human Trainers
It’s just about inevitable that this will come up at some point when you start to talk about sci-fi campaigns 
and Pokémon, so this book will quickly address it here. Someone will want to play a robot or if you have sentient and civilized Pokémon in your setting, they might want to play one of them. If your setting is es-pecially high tech, they may ask to play a disembodied digital intelligence who lives and travels through the Internet only.
For most cases, it isn’t recommended to treat this as more than a fluff difference. In a system that already has 
a lot to track,  it’s not really worthwhile to figure out what the exact differences would be between a human’s capabilities and a robot’s, or in the case of humanoid Pokémon to find a way to balance using their base stats and move pool rather than a Trainer’s normal stats. 
If it’s absolutely necessary though to make a mechanical difference, then here are some suggested guidelines:It is generally not a good idea to allow a Trainer who is a Pokémon to get access to Moves and Abilities both 
from Trainer Features and from their species’ statblock. Trainers who are Pokémon retain their Type at GM discretion but do not gain STAB without Type Expertise. Psychic Type Pokémon probably should take one or more of the Psychic Trainer Classes, and Fighting Types should take at least one instance of Martial Artist. If a player really wants to use their species’ Moves Pool instead, make a chain of three Ranked Fea-tures, each of which grants two moves from within a certain level range, such as 1-20, 21-40, and 41+, and give them either spaced out level prerequisites or work out a skill to use as a prerequisite. 
Trainers at level 1 start off with a total of 45 stat 
points at level 1 before counting any added by stat tags in Features. If a player wants to play a Pokémon as a Trainer, either scale up or down their Pokémon’s base stat total to match this value. 
Disembodied A.I. generally cannot use Body 
Category Skills aside from perhaps Intimidate. They may not even have combat stats in any meaningful way unless they’re in a robot body in which case you can treat them much like hu-mans anyway.
If a player rolling up a robot or similar wants ex-
tra benefits such as the Mindlock capability that they think makes sense for the concept, feel free to charge them Edges or Features for these, or to force them to take a drawback in exchange.
art by mayuzumi at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=32147
79
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Researcher Fields
Engineer Jailbreaker Upgrader
The Engineer is a master at creating and commanding Pokébots, robots that are often made to 
imitate Pokémon and can either supplement them or even entirely replace their use for certain tasks on a Trainer’s roster. 
The Engineer Field of Study is generally appropriate for all campaigns where Robotic Age tech-
nology is prevalent, though campaigns that tend toward the higher tech side of the Modern Age may also see good use from the class. After all, there are many examples in Pokémon canon of oddball mechanical technology that stands out a bit from their modern world. 
The Jailbreaker  makes their own Poké Balls to suit any situation and outfits them with special 
Cases that give them an edge a variety of ways. Jailbreakers tend to gravitate toward the Capture Specialist and Juggler classes as well for their affinity with using Poké Balls. This Field of Study can be played in a variety of campaign settings, not just sci-fi campaigns, as its creations are not far removed from the basics of Poké Ball technology. 
The Upgrader  is a specialist in cybernetics and wetware capable of building and installing 
advanced Augmentations in themselves and their Pokémon. For some Upgraders, the choice is philosophical. They are transhumanists who believe in surpassing the natural limits of human and Pokémon biology. For others, the choice is more pragmatic; they need the Augmentations to survive in their jobs as Runners, or they make their money selling their creations to others. 
Upgraders rely on very advanced technology and are recommended for Transhuman Age tech 
level campaigns, though cyberpunk campaigns set in the Robotic Age should still make use of Upgrader and Augmentations because of their tie-ins to the genre. The following are all Researcher Fields of Study that can supplement those found in the core 
book and do not take up Class slots. Instead, choose them the same way you would choose any other Field of Study when you take the Researcher Class. 
art by mikami49 art by tomioka jiro art by Nya-Cotta
80
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Engineer 
Prerequisites: Pokébot TrainingAt-Will – Extended ActionEffect : Y ou may craft any Engineer Recipe for which 
you qualify.
Robofighter
Prerequisites: Engineer, Adept Technology Educa-tionBind 2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : As long as this feature is Bound, you can 
command your Pokébot using a Standard Action rather than a Pokémon turn. Y our Pokébots may still only act once a round.OverclockPrerequisites: Engineer, Expert Technology Educa-tionScene – Swift ActionTarget: Y our PokébotEffect : The target is cured of all Persistent Statuses, 
resets all negative Combat Stages to default, and gains two Ticks of Temporary Hit Points. For the rest of the Scene, it deals and takes additional damage with all attacks equal to your Technology Education Rank. 
Experimental AI
Prerequisites: Engineer, Master Tech EducationStaticEffect : Increase the maximum complexity of all 
Pokébots you create by 2, and increase the maximum complexity of Pokébots you can control by 2.Engineer Research Field
Robotics 101Prerequisites: EngineerEffect : Y ou can create a Small Pokébot for 
$1000, a 
Medium Pokébot for $2000, or a Large Pokébot for 
$3000. Pokébots you create begin at Level 5. Y ou 
can create and install Basic Combat and Basic Utility Parts for Pokébots. 
Firmware Update
Prerequisites: RobofighterEffect : Y ou can create and install Advanced Combat 
and Advanced Utility Parts for Pokébots.Kitbash KingPrerequisites: OverclockedEffect : Y ou can create and install Sympathetic Drives 
and Repair Nanites for Pokébots.
Futuretech
Prerequisites: Experimental AIEffect : Y ou can create and install Wired 
Compatibility Cores for Pokébots.Engineer Recipes
If you have arrived at this page without first reading the rules in Chapter 2 on how to handle Pokébots, it is recommended that you return to that point and peruse the rules before continuing.
Players may have their own ideas for cool Moves and Abilities to give their Pokébots or other add-ons. Don’t be afraid to come up with your own recipes to make these ideas happen if you think they won’t unbalance your game or make it unfun!
81
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Pokébots and Upgrade Parts
Basic Combat Parts
Cost : +1 Complexity and $300
Effect : The Pokébot learns any two of the following 
Moves - Scratch, Tackle, Take Down, and Defense Curl. A Pokébot may have this Part installed multi-ple times, choosing different Moves each time.
Basic Utility Parts
Cost : +1 Complexity and 
$300 
Effect : Choose one of the following effects. A 
Pokébot may have this Part installed multiple times, 
choosing a different effect each time.
•	The Pokébot gains +4 to all Movement Speeds
•	The Pokébot gains the Levitate Ability and a Sky 
Speed of 2
•	The Pokébot gains a Swim speed equal to half its Overland speed
•	The Pokébot gains the Stealth and Dead Silent capabilities. 
Advanced Combat PartsCost : +2 Complexity and 
$500 
Effect : The Pokébot learns any two of the following 
Moves - Body Slam, Slash, Lock-On, and Screech. A Pokébot may have this Part installed multiple times, choosing different Moves each time.
Advanced Utility Parts
Cost : +2 Complexity and 
$500 
Effect : Choose one of the following effects. A 
Pokébot may have this part installed multiple times, choosing a different effect each time.
•	The Pokébot gains 3 Skill Ranks to distribute as 
you choose. Y ou may select this option twice.
•	The Pokébot gains a +4 bonus to its Power Capability
•	The Pokébot gains the Magnetic Capability and is immune to Scramble and EMP . Sympathetic Drives
Cost : +2 Complexity
Effect : When creating a Sympathetic Drive, you 
must use a Magmarizer, Electrizer, Metal Coat, 
Up-Grade, or Dubious Disc. A Pokébot may have 
multiple Sympathetic Drives installed, but no two 
that bestow the same effect. When installed, the 
Sympathetic Drive has an effect based on the item used to make it:
•	Magmarizer - the Pokébot learns Fire Punch, 
Flamethrower, and Fire Spin OR the Pokébot gains Heatproof and is immune to being Frozen.
•	Electrizer  - the Pokébot learns Thunder Punch, 
Discharge, and Magnet Rise OR the Pokébot gains Motor Drive and is immune to Paralysis.
•	Metal Coat - the Pokébot learns Iron Head, Flash Cannon, and Iron Defense OR the Pokébot is now Steel Type and ignores its base Pokébot type relations.
•	Up-Grade - the Pokébot learns Tri-Attack, Conversion and Thunder Wave OR the Pokébot gains Download and Analytic. 
•	Dubious Disc - the Pokébot learns Metronome, Acupressure, and Disable OR the Pokébot gains Moody and may be healed by Restoratives, Re-freshments, and Moves.
Repair NanitesCost : +2 Complexity and 
$1000 
Effect : The Pokébot gains the Regenerator Ability. 
Additionally, once per day, as an Extended Action it may gain a Digestion Buff as if using Leftovers.
Wired Compatibility Core
Cost : +3 Complexity and 
$2000 
Effect : When installed, choose up to two of the 
Pokébot’s Moves and one of its Abilities. Whenever a Pokemon with Wired is controlling this Pokébot, it adds the chosen Moves to its Movelist and gains the chosen Ability. While being controlled, a Pokébot loses access to its other Moves. Rotom inhabiting this Pokébot are treated as if in Appliance Form.
82
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Jailbreaker
Prerequisites: Basic BallsAt-Will – Extended ActionEffect : Y ou may craft any Poké Ball Case Recipe for 
which you qualify. 
Poké Ball Mods
Prerequisites: JailbreakerStaticEffect : Y ou may craft any of the Poké Ball Modifica-
tions on the next page. 
Fusion Cases
Prerequisites: Jailbreaker, Master Technology Edu-cationAt-Will – Extended ActionIngredients : Two different types of Poké Ball Cases. 
Effect : Y ou combine the two Poké Ball Cases into a 
single Fusion Case with both effects and types. Fu-sion Cases may not be used as Ingredients for this Feature. Case SpecialistPrerequisites: Jailbreaker, Adept Technology Educa-tion1 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit a target with a Poké Ball with a Spray, Flash, Bounce, or Zap Case applied to it.Effect : The Case has additional effects according to 
its type(s). •	Spray Case : After resolving the effects of the 
Case, the target loses a Tick of Health Points for each Persistent or Volatile Status Affliction they have. This may only affect a target once per Scene. 
•	Flash Case: The Case uses the Move Flash as a Burst 2 instead of a Cone 2
•	Bounce Case: The Poké Ball bounces an addi-tional time. This may not cause it to hit a target more than once. 
•	Zap Case: The target can only use At-Will actions until the end of their next turn. This may only affect a target once per Scene. Jailbreaker Research Field
Basic CasesPrerequisites: JailbreakerEffect : Y ou may create a Contest Case, Lock Case, or 
Medicine Case for 
$200.
Trick CasesPrerequisites: Case SpecialistEffect : Y ou may create a Spray Case, Flash Case, or 
Bounce Case for 
$400.Advanced CasesPrerequisites: Fusion CasesEffect : Y ou may create a Zap Case for 
$500, a Devil 
Case for $1000, or a Storage Case for $5000.Jailbreaker Recipes
Please refer to Chapter 2, New Capture Technologies for additional information on Poké Ball Cases.

83
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Poké Ball Modifications
Habitat Modification
Ingredients/Cost: Dive Ball / $250
Effect : Add one of the following keywords to the targeted Dive Ball: Arctic, Mountain, Desert, Grassland, 
Rainforest, Forest, Tundra, Taiga, Marsh, Beach, Freshwater, Urban or Cave. Instead of when underwater or underground, the modified Poké Ball subtracts 20 from its Capture Rolls when thrown in an area that corresponds with the keyword chosen. 
Power Modification
Ingredients/Cost: Nest Ball / 
$500
Effect : Y ou change the Nest Ball into a Power Ball. It retains the conditional capture modifier of a Nest Ball, 
but additionally, when a Power Ball captures a target, the captured Pokémon is raised 1d4 levels upon cap-ture.
Type Modification
Ingredients/Cost: Net Ball / 
$300
Effect : Y ou change the Net Ball into an Earth Ball, Haunt Ball, Solid Ball, Heat Ball, Mystic Ball, Air Ball,  
Mold Ball, or Gossamer Ball. The properties of these unique balls are identical to the Net Ball, but instead of affecting Bug and Water types, these Balls correspond to the following types. Earth Ball; Grass and Ground; Haunt Ball, Dark and Ghost; Solid Ball, Rock and Steel; Heat Ball, Electric and Fire; Mystic Ball, Dragon and Psychic; Air Ball, Flying and Ice; Mold Ball, Poison and Fighting; Gossamer Ball, Normal and Fairy.
Fabulous Modification
Ingredients/Cost: Luxury Ball / 
$250
Effect : Y ou change the Luxury Ball into an Fabulous Ball. When a Fabulous Ball captures a target, the cap-
tured Pokémon gains +2 dice in the Contest Stat that corresponds to the Stat boosted by their Nature. If the Stat boosted is HP , choose any two Contest Stats except the one corresponding to the lowered Stat and raise them by 1 die each. As a reminder, Beauty=SpAtk, Cool=Attack, Cute=Speed, Smart=SpDef, Tough=Def. 
Learning Modification
Ingredients/Cost: Friend Ball / 
$500
Effect : Y ou change the Friend Ball into a Learning Ball. Instead of increasing loyalty upon capture, when a 
Learning Ball captures a target, the captured Pokémon immediately learns their next level-up Move, as long as it is within 8 levels of their current level. 
Weather Modification
Ingredients/Cost: Dusk Ball / 
$300
Effect : Y ou change the Dusk Ball into a Sun Ball, Rain Ball, Hail Ball, or Sand Ball. Instead of when in low 
light, the modified Poké Ball subtracts 20 from its Capture Rolls when thrown during the corresponding weather effect. 
Learning, Fabulous and Power Modification work once on a Pokémon. Ever. Don’t let your players release and recapture to try to get the bonus again.

84
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Upgrader
Prerequisites: Novice Medicine Edu, Novice Tech-nology EduAt-Will – Extended ActionEffect : Y ou may craft any Augmentation Recipe for 
which you qualify and install them on yourself and willing Pokémon and Trainers.
Emergency Reactivation
Prerequisites: Upgrader, Adept Technology Edu1 AP – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou or your Pokémon suffer Augmentation ShockEffect : The triggering user does not suffer Augmenta-
tion Shock and their Augmentations are not disabled. This Feature may affect a target only once per Scene.
Efficient Installation
Prerequisites: Upgrader, Expert Technology EduStaticEffect : Y ou and your Pokémon gain a +2 boost to 
their maximum Augmentation Capacity and count their used Capacity as 2 lower for the purposes of Augmentation Shock. Y ou and your Pokémon can install multiple Augmentations in the same Slot.Experimental DesignsPrerequisites: Upgrader, Master Technology EduAt-Will – Extended ActionTarget: Y ou or your Pokémon with AugmentationsEffect : Choose an Augmentation the target has and 
apply the upgrade below. Experimental Designs may affect a target twice. •	Enhanced Sight: The user gains the X-Ray Vision Capability. 
•	Smart Vision: The user learns the Move Feint without taking a Move Slot.
•	Synthetic Muscle: The user recovers from Injuries twice as fast and heals one more Injury per day.
•	Embedded Weaponry: The weapon is Fine and gains Deadly Strike as a Master Move.
•	Wired Reflexes: The user gains one more Reflex Point per Scene and may also spend Reflex Points to gain +2 Critical Hit Range for one full round.
•	Medical Nanobots: Once a Scene, the user may cure themselves of all Persistent Status Afflictions as a Standard Action.
•	Dermal Plating: The user may also activate Dermal Plating to resist Special Damage.
•	Thermal-Optic Camo: While active, the user is invisible to Aura Reading and Thought Detection. 
Upgrader Research Field
DatajackPrerequisites: UpgraderEffect : Y ou may build and install the Datajack 
Augmentaion for 
$250.
Eye AugmentsPrerequisites: UpgraderEffect : Y ou may build and install the Enhanced 
Sight Augmentation for 
$1000 and Smart Vision 
Augmentation for $1500. 
Limb AugmentsPrerequisites: Emergency ReactivationEffect : Y ou build and install the Synthetic Muscle 
Augmentation for 
$1000 and the Embedded Weap-
onry Augmentation for $2000.Body AugmentsPrerequisites: Efficient InstallationEffect : Y ou may build and install the Medical Nano-
bots Augmentation for 
$1000 and the Wired Reflex-
es Augmentation for $1500.
Dermal AugmentsPrerequisites: Experimental DesignsEffect : Y ou may build and install the Dermal Plating 
Augmentation for 
$2000 and the Thermal-Optic 
Camo Augmentation for $4000. Upgrader Recipes
85
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Glitch Bender
The Glitch Bender has been affected by a literal glitch in reality. Often, this is a result of contact 
with entities such as MissingNo. or perhaps the higher anomalies that produced those entities in the first place. Glitch Benders generally do not choose to become what they are, and many who have been touched by glitch choose to ignore their newfound affinity for bending reality. Those who embrace it, however, find themselves armed with potent but unpredictable powers. 
Glitch Benders are a supernatural class that can mesh well with a variety of other Trainer class 
options. Due to the random nature of their abilities, they do equally well with a wide range of Pokémon but may have an affinity for those that learn the move Metronome. 
In many sci-fi campaigns, glitch reality and MissingNo. may not factor much into the setting, 
and Glitch Bender would not fit well in those campaigns. This class is by no means considered to be a default option in most settings, and the GM has the final word on its availability. However, in transhuman horror campaigns, space operas that reach regions of space man was not meant to visit, or even many modern campaigns, the Glitch Bender makes a good addition and way to draw players into the plot and .̢̲͢ ͎̙̯.͎̭̪͡.̡̜̺͖̻͕̥̞͘̕ą̜̪͕͚ĺ̝̫̳̝̳̦͜͜ͅļ̖ ̴̱̟̲͎͕͉̤̻͠s̬̠̝̬̖̜̹h̜̗͓̠̜̭̕a̧ ̶͚̜̱̦̳̯̠̟l̝͕̼̕l̶̷͏͎̖̱̩ͅ ̗̲͓̖͓͎̯͘s͚̘̯̭̣̫e̷̹̠̹͟r̵̶̪͓̞͓͎̩v̶̷̟͇̙̬̟̻́ͅe̸͉̞̻͈͍̬͈͝ͅ ̺͕̯͖̪t̘̤̱̩̣̱̦͘ͅh̡̰e̶̡̖̺͉̰̞͢ ̸̡̞̗̘̙̮̹̭̫ṵ̰̬͙̩̩n̷̰͖͡r̸̩̖̺̬̙̀ͅͅe͉̦͖̲̼̼͖l̮̖͞ę ̷̬͖̬̮͙̝̖̖̥ņ̶̤͍͈̙͖͔͜t̷҉̣͎̗̠i̶͈̻̺̺͖̮n̲̥͉͕͕̖̮͟g̻ ͙̪̰̩̝̗g̴̼͈̩̳͕͎̞͠l҉̣̙͡i̥͔͎͙͍͎̣ͅt҉̝̰̻͓c̹h̙̭̹̮͖̱́ͅ ̴̨̨͙͉͙i̜̺͔̠͇͓̟̪͉n͏͎̜̯̹̤͙̹̘ ̮͚̬͟t̷͓̼̠̬̩͕̩̗͘h̨ ̨̮̠ͅe̳̱̻̮̪͎͙ ̵̙̮̞͍̕n̡͔͝e͈͢͡͞w̙̫̟̰̝͢ ̮͜ó̗͈͘ṛ̞̦̘̮̀d̶͈̼̻̝̰̝͓̜ę ̢̙̣̝͔̞̦̗r̨ ̡͉̮̱͉̖͙ͅ ̛̺̳͟o̠̠̺͎̙̼̯͟f̶̪͕̝͞
̖̲̲͙̭̠ ̥̬̱͚͕̳͇s̷̶͙̖̦̘͟o͏͙c͖̻i ̵̨ ̵̥̰̹̹̪e̷͎̤̥t̝̲̜͕̦͕͜y̷̛̪̯̯͠.͎̤̣́ 
͍̣͠a̰̺̩͘͝͡ͅl̳̪̙̻̗͔͎̪͔͡l̲̪̲̭̼̯̗͍ ̴͞҉̝͔͇͙̤s̵̡̯̰̜̯̤͔̜̤̜͞ẖ̙a̵͖͈̝͖͘ͅl̹̲̲̺͖͖̱̫͟l̥̗͈̥̯̱ ̱̰́b͏̲͈͚͞e̘̤̰̱ ̢͈̯͜w̨ ͘ ̰̺a̡͓̲̺͜r̜̹̫̞̝̱̙p̷̢̻̼̫͓̣̤͟e̳d̛̟̪̦ ̟̫̠̠̬̕͟͝i̵̼̟̩͈̹n͏͖̘̰͙̺̮̙͎͚͘t̢̛͍̻͘o͈̟̯̫̪̟͇ ̧͍̘̥̗̗̜͘ǵ̟̪̖͎̮̣̖͡l̡͙̯̟͕̼͖̀i̸͇̼̮͙̗̤͖͞t̸͖̜̬͖̗͕c̤̭h̷͓̪̥.̢̫̤̘̙̩͍͉ ͇͓ͅm̸̷͈͍͡a̶̴̺͇̥̳̣̟̫t̨ ̷̗̜̦̮͍̰̯̺̣ṭ̵̨̝̭̼͝e̴҉͕̘̠͖̤ŕ̢̙͚ ̴̲͈̙̤ͅͅẉ͚̻̗ͅi̼͖̤̩̻̬̭̭͠l̦̦̞̞l̨ ̛̫̘̲̲̰́ ̡͍͝l̷̤̗͎͉̺͔͔̀o̲ş͓̖̟̮͍̩e̶̲̣͉̞͉͘͜ ̵̰͉͇̘̪̥̱͚́̀f̵̭̤͇͟ǫ ̸ ̷͓̘̱̼͉ͅr̮͜͟m̦̘̼͉̦̯̱̟̀͢.̟͈̼ ̳̝̬̯̱͇̹̙̀
a͏͔̹̮͙̩͍̳͟ļ ̴̥̰̮̗̕l͢͏͚͕͇ ̵͈̫̰̗ṣ̸ḩ̶̩̩͚̣̬̟̦à̞̠l͏͎l̴͍̱̹̟͉̜ͅ ͙̰̰̥̯b ̨́ ̢̹͖̮e̩̳̼̟̰̗ ̛͔c̷̘̜͢ḩ̹̤̙̲̺͎̜̩a̸̡̩͕̣̠͚͙͇ͅn̴̦͖̰̰͉̻g̭̥͇̦͖̮̘͔͉͟e̫̘̫̺̤̕ḏ̟̠̜̞͡͝ ̙̮̙͇̹̱̣͢i҉̧̬̝͔̪̞͠n̘̻̦̞ ̵͏͔̪t̮̖͎̬̪̀͝h̟͍́e͏̛̥̞̜̭ ͕̝́͜i̧ ̢̤̙͖͓̻m̦̠̝ͅa̵͈͖̰̳͓͚̦͘g̨̛̱͖̲̩͎̗̪͈e̶̡͔͎͎̞̼͎̖̼ ͓̟̫͡ò̭̝f̨̭͕̻̩̠͙ ̜̪̗͢c҉̝̞͉h̢͚̝̖͙̪͍͍ạ̰͢o̦̩͉̹̫͔̪͘͜s̶̨̲͙̺͉̟͈̳͢͝͏̥̘̜͈͎͇̞̯̠g̷͖͚̣̤͜ơ̷̥̱̫̬͇̬t̷̜̥͓̘t̸͖̩͇͔̩̘̳ͅá̝͉̜̟̠̙ ̭̪̫̥̝͘c̶̘̱͍͢ͅa͕̳͙̟͕̝̱t̢͎̹c͙̬̤͔h̻̭̫̣͈͙̖̭̺͝ ̸̻͉͍͢e̗̩̰̖̬̭͝m͏̵̩͙̞̘͔̺̻̮͎ ̴̫̹̻͕̥̫̙͠a̢̼͙̫͕̲̹̩ĺ̷̡̮̼l҉̸͓̜̞͍̼̤̕ͅͅ ̗̺̜g͚̬̘̥̲̥͞o̸̗̙t̴̴̙̰͞t̕
̦̞̣͍̬̯͎a̵̝̗̝̻̥̦̳̺͕͝ ̲̦̰̟̤̹ć͖̫̠̘͉̪͢a͏̭̟̰̤͝t̸͕̠̘̱ͅc̢̫͓̪̺͢h̺̦̟̕ ̙̬e̯̳̦̤͘͞m̩̟͕̭͎͎͉̪͟ ̙͎a̵̴͇̺̞͕͔̺̠͍͟l̜̗̬̭̻͇̞̕l̶͏͔̖̝ ̴̗̘̘̀g̟͎͙̣o̟̲̱̱͈t͖̰͉̳͚̻̯̀̕t̴͕̜a͎̪͕̹̯̫̘ ̫̼c̶͈͇̮̙̘̘̝͎a̦̟͕͕̥̰̦̥͉͠͝ţ͇͖͍̞͕̟͘͜c̴̢̭h͍̘͇̟̪̕͠ ̶̡̣̯̪̝͎͍̟͖̀ȩ̳͕̖̟̫͍̀m̛̲̬̯͟ ̛̗͉͔̞͇͉̱̫̥̕͜a͕̥̞̘ͅl̨̙̩̣͉͙͖͍̩l̢̬͞ ̳̣͚͍͚͠ǵ̸̛̯̱̹͓̹̲o̦̼ͅt͖̺̪̜̹͔̜̦́t̴̨̗̭͓̹͍͍̩ͅa̷̩͎̮̲͍̗͕̭̺ ̖͇̜͈̜̹c̶̤a̵͉̖̮̗̙̭͍̜͜t̨ ҉͉̳͍͓c̷̻̹̣̪͜͠h̦̻̮̣͙ ͈̩e̵̪̺̦̥̣͓͓͇̕m̸̲̕ ̢҉̙̠̠͉̺̰ą͓͙̘̫͙ļ̹̹l̷̛̩̹̺͔̦̣̬̭ͅ ͉̙̖̝͓͞g͓͕͔̯̥o̲t̷͚̳̭̪͕͍̫̠͓̀t̵̠̗̀à̵̠͈̦͍͔̠ ̵͚̘̟ͅc̠͚̱͕̦a̢̹̯̩̘t͡
̕͏̪͚͇͙ć̷͙̻̬̗h̢̼͈̙̼̻ ̨̧̺̟̲̠̦̬͉͞ͅe̩͢ḿ̟̰̙͔̮͈͘ ̲͝ͅa̪̗̭̥̻͇̝̥̜͟l̶̞͈̜̝͎͓͚̙̀l҉̸̦̗͕̗͚̙͚̹ ̶͔͉̣g͓͉̹̯̹͠ͅǫ ͏̮͖t̢̙̙̙͇̮̖̬ t̸̞̞̩̩͇͉̞ͅa̮̘͖̪̹̙͎͍͈̕ ͇̀c̴̵̣͇͚̣͎̲͍͚̀ͅa̵̛̠̯̗̩̘̲̠͚͝t͏̰̩̫̜̩̜c҉̦̝͎͍͍h̸̻͍ ̜̟ͅe̗̘̖͢m̸҉̫͉͖̗̝̘ ̧̙̳̱̳a̵̱̮̦͞l͈̰̗̩̮ͅl͇͔͚̻͔ ͇͚̼̟͟͡g̸̡͎̘̦̹̹̝͡ǫ̝̻t̞͔ͅt̡͙͟a̴̡͚̖̟̟͇͇͖̦̣ ̣́c͇͙͍a͏̷̺̘t͔̻̞͖̲̤͟ç͍͉̞̗͇̥͝͠h҉̵̝̦̥̩ͅ ͇̘̗̫̤̹̝̰̘͠ẹ̮̯̠̰̩̯͖͢͜m̤̤̞͙̠͜ ̣͟͡a̝͈l̷͚͔l̵̴̠̬͎̹͙̫͠ ̛̖͎̼͠g̡͇͙̞ǫ͉͓͚̮̜͖ͅţ̘̕͟t̷̢̳̜̲̀a̴̠͖̼͟ ̛͙̻͘c̘̳͙a̷̛̮̭̼͖̤̗͕̪̳͘t̴̟̠̤c͇̺̥̝̠͢͢ḩ͈̼͓̹̳͚ ̶̱̰̺̳͙̹͚̀͘e ̵̨ ̴̙̟̠̮͔͈̰͈ḿ̶̡̜̣ ̷͞҉͍̖̹̤̼̱a̟̠̱l͏̫͓͢l҉͔̣͎̜͢͞ ̵̤̼̺̖̺g̴͝
̨͚̪̟o̫̳̗͎̻͓̗ţ̻͖͍̩͕̲ṱ̮̲̟̲̮͠͠ͅą ͕̱̲̦̰̙̖́ ̷̶̨͉͇̩c͉̪̰̰͞a̴̛̭̩͙͠t͏͞͏̤c͔̤̮̣͉̥̮̠͘͘h͉͇͝͝ ̫̥͠è̠̖̤͙m̬̰͖͉̖͉̘ͅ ̴̱̞̗̝̼ͅà̶̫̹̖̺̥ļ̶̻̝͘l̵̦ ̰͇̲́̕ͅͅg̸͎͖͓͖͕̳͎ó͔̣̝̣̭̀t̶̖̫͓͎͔̗̭̝́͘t̵͚͚͡á̻̳̣́͝ ̭̯͚̦͈̟̼͢c̞̘͈̩̳͜a̢̭̞̖̼͢t͏҉̻̺̰͇͕c̬̭̺͟͜h̵̯͍̼͡ ̴̠̯͍̜e̻͖͡m̴̱̮͉̯ ̸̧̫͎̳̣̟͟a̴͇̻̦̳̪̤̮͎̜ļ̣̞̞͍͜l̸͇̪̯͈̀͠ ͢͏͏̠͎̺g̛̣̼̮̣͎̰̼̮͞͞o̭̼t̨ ҉͍͙̗t̻̺̪̺̥̭̬͚a̲͙̗̺̝͙͍̞͢ ̨̣͕̝̬̀c̢̢̺͈͕̲a҉̧̻̜̩̘̜̖̭͡t͔͇̣̭͖c̨̦͎̘͎̬̫͈h̛̤͕͓̳͇͚́ ͕̲̬̭͇̯́é̼̜̠͝ͅm̡̱͙ ̵̫̺͉̳̟͚̰̟a̭l ̡̧ ̠̝̮́l̳͈̺͕͙͍͝͠ ̸̳̥̱g̬̮͉̝͕͉͟ͅo͚̲͇͈̥̼̣̣͟t҉͖̀̕t̩̬̞̩̲͙a͝҉̯ ̻̮̭̪̣̻̫̼̕c̭͘ͅa̡̮̼̥͙t̵͍̩͚̠͇͝ć̷̜̘͕̱̝͝
h̡͖̰̜͍̖̟̗̣͠ ̸̵̡̟̳̤̘̘͚̺̜̬ḙ̭͈̥͚̲͖͟m̫̲̝͡ ̞͍̱̯̯͠a̧ ̨͓̳̲̻͢l̢̤̣͞l̨̮͈͕͜ ͏̤͕̳̬̜̺̤͢g̯͚͠ò̶͙̻ţ͔͍̭͝t̵̥͖̤̬ḁ̝̝͇ ̧̻̣̕͟c̨̮̭̤̝̬ͅạ̳͈̬̗̮t̴̢̞̣̹̝̟̯̩̗̣c̣h̵͔̭͕̭̣̞͓͜ ̸̩̪̣ͅe̵͔̯̱̯̫̪m̨ ̤̻̠͚̭̀ ̨͔̱͚̝͘á̩̺̲̥̙͇l̨̛̝̙̲̮̻̥͕͞ͅl̩̟̟̥̦͟ ͔̺̼ͅg̯͇̰̪͍̪o͕̥̙̙̤͓̮̣͕͝t̬̣̹t̴̯̫̳̰͞a̴̶̢͎̥͈̭̠ͅ ͚̜̭͟͜͞ͅc̯̩͎͖͍̘͟͞͞a̲̬̝͉̝͡͝͝ͅt̩̝̜͕̻͘c̸̡̹̤̖̘̱̣͍͘h̟̲͕͈̼͔ͅ ̀҉̖̻̦͚̤͎ȩ̦̟̭̬̰̦͈͎͠͠m̷̗͕̟̖͙̘̮̖͝ ͈͍͍̺̟͓̻̭͓ą̴͈͕͇̝̩̣͘l̞̩l̨̟̫̙͟ ̗̝̠͍̣͙g̛͏̞o̤̳͙͔̻̘̦ͅţ̦̹͙̯̥̱͔͚͟t̷̩̰͎̰̗̯̹a͢҉͇͕̜ ͅc͚̣̞̜̳̙̭͡͝a̵͇̫t̳c̸͢҉̞h̤̱͇̲͙̮̙͍̀ͅ ̶̦̩͕͡ȩ̵͍̫͙̻͇͠m̢͕̻̥̺̥̞̳ ̶̬͙͕̱̩͕̜
̞a̛͉̱͉l͔̫̲͎͕̪̀͠ͅl̨̛̼̜̭̝͓ ̛͏͎̲̳̪̰̜̺g̦̜o͏҉̥t҉̸̺̙̗̱͇t̢͔a̧̤̹̹̞͙̜ ̜͓̦͖̘̩̱̦̗͢c̲̬̙̘͎̤̜͉͠à̝̼̦̳t̢̨̩̪͍̬̣̜̬c͔͕͎̯͞h̸̝̮͎ 
̸̸̢͕e̸̞̥͡m͕̲̣̕͠ ̡̨̰̪͔á̺̙͓̱l͉̰͠l̤̕͠ ͔̝̱̩̖͓̕g̛̹̟̱̞̰̤̫̣͡o͇̠̪̩̰̫̹̕ͅt̺̪t̤̙̩̹͖͚̙͟a̴͉͙̣̺̩̲͚̕ ͈̱̙͎̺̣c͍͉̺̫̯̦̫̜͜ͅa̭̙̫͕͕̥͎̕͝t̸̰̫͈͙̙c̨̗̪͎͕͔͇̻͙͟h͏̦͚̤͇̟ ̮͕͕è͝҉̰̙͙͍mͅ ̨̼̞͝a҉̦͍̝̗̭̺ḻ̟̦l̴͇̖̻̦͉͖͚͙͡ ̻̦̺͔g̵̺̼͈͚͙o͢҉͓̩̲͚̬̖t͈̭̩̘̣̗͉ͅt̶̻͇̺̲̼a̗͕̘͖̩̳͍͕ ͏̰̟̀c̶̥͇̦̭͘a̞͔̣̖͎͜ͅṱ̪̦̫͍̻̺́c͏̜̰̘̘͉̰̟̯ḫ̵͇͓̦̻̦͚ ҉̠͙̦̬̮̗̗͠͠é͓̞̮̤̦͕͔͔̩̀͝m͜҉̨̫̟̘̜̠͙̦ͅ ̴̦̲̼̜̗̣̱͍͢á̗̤̼͡l̶̳͍͝͠l̩̻̳̭̦̙͞ͅ ̷̡̳̣̮̞̖̲̠͢
͔̖g̭͖̩̠o̴̮̙͕̼̳̖͚ͅt̵͚͇̱̺̳t͏̘̩͍͘à͕̼ ͏̡͎̖̣͙̤̳̟c҉̱̜̙͓̼̼͢a͏̤̝͓̺͉̣̭́t̗̯̱͉̹̫̫̀c̻h̢͈̻̯̳̯̙͠ ̫͓̭̫͜͠e̬͔ḿ̬̪͝ ̸̗͢͟a̷̟̩̠̦̼̭͔̗̮̕l̲̲̱̙̦̤̣l͏̳͚̫̱̠͕̟͢ͅ ̵͉̹̙͙͞g͇̥͚̣̘̗o̱͉͇̮̮t̪͎̖̳̣̩̥̯͝t̸͉̫̮̩̞̖̬͔͘a̡̮͍̠ ̶̧̘̖̼c̭͉͎̦͎̺̺͙͢a̶̷̷͙̹̦̝t̛͎̲̞̞͞ć̷̗̫h̦͟ ̹͖̺̠͇͍̙̜ͅe̦̙͔͖̗͍̤m̸̶̮̙̭̟͎̺͔ ̼͙͇͚̭͇a̴̪̺̞͘lart by xusuratonkachix at http://xusuratonkachix.deviantart.com/Trainer Combat

86
Chapter Three: Trainer Classes
Glitch Bender
[Class] [+Special Defense]Prerequisites: Glitched Existence, Novice Focus, Occult Education, or Perception StaticEffect : Y ou gain the Synchronize Ability. 
I Am Error[+Special Defense]Prerequisites: Glitch Bender
2 AP – Free Action
Trigger: Y ou gain a Status Affliction
Effect : Roll 1d10 and change which Status Affliction 
is gained according to the following chart. If the target already has that Status Affliction, roll again. 
1: Sleep 6: Confused
2: Burn 7: Paralysis
3: Frozen 8: Enraged
4: Infatuation - Choose 
target of Infatuation randomly among foes. 9: Disabled - Choose Move at random out of known Moves.
5: Poison 10: Suppressed
Null Error[+Special Defense]Prerequisites: Glitch BenderStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Disable and Snatch.
Corrupt Reality[+Special Defense]Prerequisites: Glitch Bender, Adept Perception, Occult Education, or FocusScene - Free ActionTarget: Any roll made by a foeEffect : Y ou may force the foe to reroll that roll.Code Injection[+Special Defense]Prerequisites; Corrupt Reality1 AP – Standard Action Target: A Pokémon or Trainer within 5 metersEffect : Y ou may use any of the Glitches below. They 
are treated as a Status-Class attack with an AC of 2. Y ou may only use each Glitch once per Scene, and each target may only be affected by Code Injection once per Scene.•	Object Not Found: The target may not benefit 
from Equipment, Held Items, and consumable 
Items for one full round.
•	Access Denied: The target is Slowed and may 
only take At-Will actions for one full round.
•	Blue Screen : The target is Blinded and Vulnera-
ble for one full round.
Glitch Shuffle[+Special Defense]Prerequisites: Glitch Bender, Expert Perception, Occult Education, or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Metronome and Topsy-
Tur vy
Glitch Burst
[+Special Defense]Prerequisites: Glitch Shuffle, Master Perception, Occult Education, or Focus2 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit with Topsy-Turvy or use another Glitch Bender MoveEffect : Glitch Burst’s effect depends on the trigger -
ing Move. •	Disable: The target of Disable is also Suppressed.
•	Snatch: Regain one use of a Glitch Bender Move. 
This may only affect each Move once per Scene. 
•	Metronome : Generate three random Moves 
instead of one, and choose which Move to use. 
•	Topsy-Turvy: The target of Topsy-Turvy be-
comes Confused. They are automatically cured 
of this Confusion at the end of their next turn.
The Glitch Pokémon 
concept in Chapter 2 pairs well with this class.

Chapter 4
Sample 
Campaign 
and Setting 
Concepts
88
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
How to Use These Settings
This chapter is divided into three sections containing three full setting concepts, four one-off locations that 
can be inserted into any campaign, and five example encounters for sci-fi campaigns. While all of these can be used as-is, they’re also designed to be inspirations for your own ideas or at least adjusted for the type of game you want to run. 
The three sample settings were chosen to cover a wide array of sci-fi concepts and subgenres as well as to 
explore various aspects of Pokémon lore that have a lot of room for development in a sci-fi world. Keep in mind as you read these that they aren’t intended to be complete and closed settings. Each setting is complete enough for a campaign, but mysteries have been deliberately left open-ended, not just to prevent potential players from reading ahead but also to encourage playing with ideas and riffing off the ones contained here. 
The Age of Cassiopeia is the first campaign setting detailed and the representative of the space opera genre. 
It’s a great setting for players who primarily think of Star Trek or Star Wars when they think of sci-fi, though it takes its inspiration more directly from shows such as Stargate SG-1 and from video games like Mass Ef-fect. The aspect of Pokémon it focuses on is the implied extraterrestrial origin of species such as Staryu and 
Clefairy, and it actually uses the latter as a companion space-faring civilization to humanity as well as asking questions about the origin of the Elgyem and Beheeyem. 
The setting is accessible and simple, and it’s intended for games that go for the feeling of space exploration 
without worrying too much about scientific accuracy. There’s potential there to develop a campaign that feels more like an Arthur C. Clarke novel than a campy sci-fi TV show, but highly technical and scientific plots aren’t necessary at all. 
Babel  is the cyberpunk entry in this trio of settings, and it takes its inspiration from all sorts of works, rang-
ing from Neuromancer  to Idoru  to Deus Ex to Ghost in the Shell  to, oddly enough, Tiger & Bunny. Compared 
to Cassiopeia, Babel takes a more hardline approach to the science, and fantastical technologies like Poké 
Balls don’t exist. Evolution is more akin to a slow process of growth than an instant metamorphosis, and the setting centers around genetic engineering and its role in the Pokémon universe. From reviving fossils to creating Mewtwo to studying Eevees, Pokémon has always showcased genetics, and Babel begins with the premise that genetic engineering based on Eevee has led to the invention of Evolution Stones.
Creative Destruction  is a transhuman sci-fi setting with touches of horror, though it takes inspiration both 
from transhuman sci-fi novels like Charles Stross’s Accelerando  and Glasshouse  as well as more near future 
sci-fi anime such as Pale Cocoon  and even online creations such as the SCP Foundation. The term creative 
destruction was used by Marxists to describe the violent accumulation and destruction of wealth in capital-
ism to maintain an economic order and by later economists to describe the necessary abolition of obsolete structures and ideas as new innovations arise. This is the perfect analogue for the views surrounding trans-human technology in this setting where a mysterious apocalyptic event has rendered most highly advanced technologies unusable and forced humanity to start picking up the pieces again. 
Ever since MissingNo. was discovered in the first Pokémon games, glitch phenomena and Pokémon have 
gripped the fanbase’s imagination, and Creative Destruction draws from and elaborates on these ideas. Eldritch horrors lurk just around the corner, or within malfunctioning Poké Balls and computer systems.
89
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
art by Robert Kim at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=153540Everything began with a single speck in the 
night sky. An astronomer in the mid 19th century made what seemed like a rather 
unremarkable observation at the time. At least, compared to the real truth we know now. A brilliant light had joined the stars of the constellation Cassiopeia, and it glowed with radiance for a single night before disappearing. 
Around this time, other astronomers had made 
similar observations of stars that underwent sudden 
fluctuations in brightness. In time, astronomy would 
develop to the point scientists would give these stars 
a name: Supernova. These astronomers had spent 
years writing the obituaries of stars. Their dying 
breaths would be recorded with spectrometers 
centuries or millenia after the fact, when their last 
light finally reached the Earth and swept past it. So 
ended the mystery of Cassiopeia, or so we thought. 
The original astronomer never stopped looking into it, however. Just one detail bothered him: the other 
astronomers had all seen a star burst into a sudden 
brightness. There was no star there before he saw the 
new light in Cassiopeia. 
Fifty years later, two decades after the astronomer 
had died, it happened again, in the Pyxis 
constellation this time, seen by a trainer and his 
Umbreon out stargazing in the Spanish countryside. 
Y es, it was bright enough that its sudden appearance caught the eye of this young man, who had no knowledge of astronomy beyond a constellation chart or even a telescope to aid him. 
In the years to come, it would happen again and again, each time brighter and each closing the gap 
between sightings. Astronomers began to take notice, and the flurry of scientific research yielded startling 
conclusions. Spectrometers recorded baffling data that matched no star types or other celestial bodies in the scientific record. Each time, the Cassiopeia Phenomenon, as it was called, moved closer to Earth, and it wasn’t long until astronomers concluded the last confirmed sighting had been less than 10 light years away. 
Whatever happened out there, it happened only 10 years ago. How long until it reaches the Earth?
The discovery of pulsars in the 1960s added a chilling revelation to this growing body of knowledge. 
Pulsars are a rotating type of neutron star with highly directed energy emissions. Astronomers can only 
observe pulsars when their energy is pointed at the Earth. The findings matched some characteristics of 
the Cassiopeia Phenomenon. Scientists concluded it was an object hurtling through space at an impossible 
faster than light speed, occasionally emitting a targeted burst of energy that signaled its final destination: 
our solar system. 
C
ASS
I
OPEIA
90
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Finally, in the early 2000s, it arrived. It stopped out in the orbit of Neptune, a ruined and inelegant lump 
of a vessel that looked like it might as well have been carved out of an asteroid. The nations of the world scrambled to put together a sophisticated enough space craft to reach the derelict visitor, which we had named Cassiopeia after the constellation it originally appeared around. As our Metang astronauts took their first steps aboard the vessel, a burst of psionic energy pulsed through the ship and towards the Earth. Four hours later, as the pulse of energy reached our planet, every Elgyem and Beeheyem in the world looked up to the sky, as one entity, enraptured by some primal experience that tugged at an intelligence long lost to the psychic Pokémon. 
The wait was excruciating for the scientists at mission control. It took four hours to send a signal out to 
Neptune, and it took another four hours to get a reply back from the Metang. Aboard the ruined ship, fluttering among the barely operational engines and broken data banks, were a collection of strange and blocky machine-like creatures in the shape of symbols, like a language. They displayed incredible feats of coordination, but their intelligence seemed limited, and they lacked individuality. We called them the Unown , and they became the basis of our star-faring civilization. Thus began the Age of Cassiopeia. 
— Adrianna Belarus, Historian and Professor Emeritus, Hightower Neptune University
The Age of Cassiopeia Campaign Setting
Genre : Space Opera, Soft Sci-Fi
Features: Ancient Alien Civilizations, Interstellar Civilization, Exploration Among the StarsTechnology: Galactic Age Tech Level, Faster Than Light Space Travel, Limited Cybernetic AugmentationsRecommended Soundtrack: Homeworld 2  OST, Mass Effect  OST, Battlestar Galactica OST
Recommended Trainer Class Additions: Engineer, Jailbreaker, Upgrader (limited)Important Rules and Concepts: Gravitational Variations, Space Travel , Vehicle Rules
The Age of Cassiopeia is a ca mpaign setting in the late 22nd century where humanity has spread to the 
stars. Our solar system, now called the Sol Sector, remains the core of the Terran Federation, a galaxy spanning civilization that now includes 5 major star systems, each of which acts much like a sovereign nation would on Earth, with planets instead of states or provinces. Pokémon are simply the animals, alien or otherwise, spread throughout the galaxy, and only a fraction of the species of Pokémon we know originated from Earth. Many Pokémon with more similarities to real world animals can be found on Earth, but the stranger Pokémon are likely aliens.
art by masariro at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=52472
91
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Technology and Setting Basics
The discovery of Cassiopeia jump-started technological progress and united the nations of Earth together in 
exploring the stars. From the wreckage of the ship, scientists salvaged enough technology to form the basis of modern Poké Ball technology, faster than light space travel, and many other innovations in engineering and computer science that brought humanity into the space-faring age. 
No other forms of life were discovered aboard the Cassiopeia, and a thorough investigation of the ship’s 
remains showed that it had been heavily damaged for many decades, possibly centuries, before arriving at its destination. Scientists believe the damage to the ship must have caused the large bursts of light each time 
the ship jumped into faster than light travel.
Large data banks were discovered aboard the ship, all ruined. Scientists concluded after a study of the 
language used on the ship, with the aid of the Unown, that these must have held the digital forms of the ship’s owners. They had reached a point in their technological development where they transcended the need for mere physical bodies and uploaded themselves into computers for these long journeys through the stars. Somewhere in their journey, they must have been attacked and died as their servers were destroyed, though their faithful Unown servants kept the ship going along its charted course regardless. 
It’s a testament to the sturdiness of the ship that it managed to stay together for that long, though much of 
that can be attributed to the maintenance actions of the Unown. The Age of Cassiopeia uses the Machine Swarm Unown  Pokémon Variant in Chapter 1. More than just maintenance workers, these Unown also 
form the backbone of the faster than light travel technology in this campaign setting. 
Large numbers of Unown are collected to create a linked ring-shaped gateway that opens a wormhole to 
a destination in space. Rune Masters who can shape the form of an Unown can change the symbols of the Unown composing a portal, which tells the linked Unown where to create the portal to in space. A Rune Master with the Rewrite Feature may modify an Unown Gate as an At-Will Extended Action. The further away the destination is, the more Unown are required to make a gateway. These Unown Gates remain in place after they are set and can be reused. Activating a portal is extremely energy taxing, however, making them infeasible to activate without the power sources of larger space craft or planetary installations.  
However, they are one way Gates. As a result, 
most space-faring ships carry a set of Unown pre-programmed to create a Gate back home when they are set, and every ship needs a crew of Rune Masters for navigation. In addition to psionic Trainers, any Rune Master can also learn the Psychic Navigator Edge. Rolls are made only when setting a new 
destination, making pre-made portals very valuable.
In general, technology is quite advanced. Artificial 
gravity technology innovations make space travel easier on human physiology, and anti-gravity suits 
have made it possible to explore high gravity worlds 
and discover new Pok émon species. 
art by akitsu taira at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=11819
92
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Details of Space Travel Procedures
This map details the Terran Federation’s space as an aid to understanding space travel. Only the Sol and Luna Sectors are explicitly defined in this sample setting. The remaining three sectors are placeholders for the GM to define and locate. Black lines mark commonly traveled Unown Gate paths within the Federation.
Psychic Navigators visualize not a particular path through space but defining characteristics of the area to 
jump to, using their starting point to define the outside edge of a sphere with the destination at the center. The Gate can then be activated anywhere within that sphere to open a wormhole to the destination. The wider the radius of this sphere, the more information in this vision, hence the need for more Unowns to encode jumps to further destinations. Navigators with telepathic powers can transmit this information to a Rune Master directly, or they can interface with a computer using a Datajack to share the data. Opening a Gate outside of its sphere leads to unstable wormholes, wormholes to the wrong location, or other hazards.
Pre-programmed Unown Gates define a sphere around a destination, meaning as long as the ship’s jumps 
take it within the realm of this sphere, it can always use the pre-programmed Gate to get back to a certain destination. In the instance that a ship travels outside of the spheres defined by its pre-programmed Gates, Psychic Navigators and Rune Masters are necessary to modify them to expand the spheres they cover. 
The number of Unown needed to construct a Gate to a far away star system can be huge, scaling with the 
volume of the sphere represented. Jumps within the same sector require at most a dozen Unown, but tens or hundreds are used to encode jumps between sectors of the Federation, making permanent stationary Gates the most convenient way to travel. Gates can be duplicated, but it takes a long effort and many Unown. It’s more efficient to jump between known Gates in a series of short hops than to attempt one long jump. 
map modified from Jason Christianson’s render of  NASA ’s model of the Mily Way at http://www.jasonsart.com/
93
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Age of Cassiopeia Society
The rapid developments in technology due to salvaging the Cassiopeia left humanity in a strange state 
where some of their technologies were highly advanced and some had merely made what would’ve been normal progress from the point they were at before the discovery. Primarily, what this means is that medical technology and advancements in biology have not caught up to the discoveries in physics and the engineering innovations that have allowed space travel. 
Many places on Earth still show the signs of old civilization. Buildings last for a long time, and there’s little 
reason to rebuild what still works well. The faded shells of 21st and 20th century buildings conceal glossy 
interiors filled with advanced computer technology from Cassiopeia. Augmented Reality is in widespread 
use, and the whole world is unified by the Internet..
While some of the more serious medical problems, such as cancer, have yet to be completely solved, human 
life expectancy has increased by about 30 to 40 years since the 21st century, and medical advances allow humans to explore the depths of space without worrying too much about alien infectious diseases. 
Poké Ball Technology
Poké Balls are the end result of highly advanced matter to energy conversion technology discovered aboard 
Cassiopeia. Pok émon aren’t anything sp ecial in relation to this technology. Inanimate objects and even 
people can be captured within Poké Balls. Most people, 
however, receive a chip implant at birth that prevents them from being captured by this technology, and the same chips are often used for Pokémon that act as household pets, exhibitions in wildlife reserves, or even members of society, as the intelligent Clefairy often do. Valuable items are also chipped to prevent theft. 
Poké Balls themselves require a license to own and are 
used primarily by interstellar explorers to capture and study alien life in a humane manner. Most of these explorers also use the Balls on their own Pokémon companions, mostly for safety and security reasons. They are also usually stored on an explorer’s space craft rather than kept in Pokémon Centers.
Pokémon Centers
Medical treatment still occurs in a traditional form. Technology is not yet at the point where people or Pokémon can be directly treated in their energy forms in Poké Balls. Regardless, medical technology allows for a fast turnaround for anything from wounds to broken bones, and even amputated limbs can be grown in a lab and reattached given enough time. 
art by tetsu (countryside) at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1277
94
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Cybernetic Augmentations
Augmentations are a touchy subject among the citizens of the Terran Federation. Almost all people have a basic Datajack Augmentation which allows them to access the Augmented Reality networks. However, Augmentations are universally unhealthy for Trainers, and the optional Essence loss rules for Augmentations are in use for Age of Cassiopeia. 
Scientists theorize that humans and most Pokémon have yet to reach an advanced stage in their evolution 
where they can link seamlessly with technology. It seems less like a problem of technology and more to do with biological development, as some psionic humans have displayed less of a problem with Augmentation technology than most others, even retaining the ability to use Aura despite heavy cybernetics use. 
Trainer Creation in the Age of Cassiopeia
Supernatural classes that rely upon Aura (Aura Guardian, Channeler, Oracle), Psionics (Telekinetic, 
Telepath, Warper), and Magic (Hex Maniac, Sage) are exceedingly rare in this setting. In particular, the 
practice of manipulating Aura is considered a lost art, and very few teachers exist for the practice. Magic use 
is considered primitive in the face of many modern technologies, and interest in the art is low. 
Psionic powers are a recent development in human evolution, first appearing in the late 20th century. They 
are a rare genetic mutation, and even in modern times, psychics are a rare boon and often used alongside 
Rune Masters to forge safe Unown Gates to explore the stars. However, these individuals are rarely sent on 
dangerous exploratory missions because of the risk to their lives and their use in ensuring safe space travel.
All Trainers in an Age of Cassiopeia campaign begin with the Gravity Training Edge for free, regardless of 
whether or not they meet the prerequisites. 
Pokémon Populations
As a general rule, Psychic Type Pokémon are very rare on Earth, with the Elgyem line being the only species that this setting assumes a GM will treat as making the planet their home. Many Pokémon should 
be native to alien planets, and when running a campaign in this setting, be sure to reserve a good amount of 
Pokémon to be discovered by the players on uncharted worlds. 
While it’s up to you to decide the specifics of what kinds of alien Pokémon to throw at your players, the 
Pokémon Variants  section in Chapter 1 will provide a lot of ideas. Additionally, there are some changes that 
are important to the details of the setting. The Unown are the obvious example, but here are some more. 
Elgyem and Beheeyem: This line of Pokémon marks the most important change from the original concept, 
aside from the Unown. Scientists and anthropologists studying Cassiopeia have made the shocking discov-
ery that Elgyem and Beeheyem are likely an evolutionary split from the original race that created the Cassi-
opeia. This is baffling due to the fact that, despite their psychic powers, Elgyem and Beheeyem are not par -
ticularly intelligent species and lack the sapience of humans. However, there is something that links them to 
Cassiopeia, indicated by their reaction to its appearance. How did they get to Earth in the first place?
Beldum, Metang, and Metagross: The Beldum line are artificial Pokémon created for the purpose of acting 
as probes for space travel before the discovery of the Cassiopeia. They are pure Steel Type. 
Clefairy : Use the Group Consciousness Clefairy variant from Chapter 1. Clefairy were discovered in a 
colony on the moon and have a sophisticated underground civilization there.  
95
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
art by Tsukuba Masahiro at http://zenovia.sub.jp/
Key Locales in the Age of Cassiopeia
Each Sector and even each planet within each sector acts fairly independently as a civilization. Communi-
cations are still constrained by the speed of light, meaning communicating between planets in a sector takes hours, and travel by space craft via Unown Gate is necessary to communicate between sectors at all. 
The Sol Sector
Within the Sol Sector, life centers around Earth, its moon, Mars, Jupiter, and Neptune. The underground Clefairy civilization on the moon was discovered around the time of the invention of radio, and the first attempts at manned space travel established contact between the two races, which has remained largely amicable since. The shared consciousness the Clefairies displayed made them very effective researchers when it came to understanding the Unown and their own workings as a hive mind. 
After the discovery of Cassiopeia, human civilization began to coalesce around Neptune. It was dangerous 
and difficult to bring much of the technology that was discovered back to Earth at first, so researchers began assembling first orbital space stations around the planet, then colonies on its moons. Eventually, a Dyson Sphere was built around all of Neptune itself – a megastructure of metal plates and satellites that completely contains the planet. Scientists then catalyzed a reaction in Neptune’s core that turned the entire planet into a power source for the sphere and all the satellites and colonies around it. As time grew and the population expanded, a series of concentric rings was constructed around the planet to house people and equipment. 
Mars was the first major terraforming experiment that humanity attempted, and the red planet was turned 
into a popular tourist attraction by the time the process was completed. Beautiful rivers now flow through and around large luscious forests on the planet’s surface, most of which have large cities built around them. 
Jupiter was the second place humanity (and the Clefairy) discovered intelligent life in the solar system. 
Large jellyfish creatures living in the atmosphere came to be called Tentacool and Tentacruel. Colonies were built on Jupiter’s moons and on space stations, and it was here that anti-gravity technology was pioneered. 
96
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Neptune
As the central hub of life in the Sol Sector, Neptune will be an important fixture in most Age of Cassiope-ia campaigns and thus will receive a little more detail. The culture of Neptune differs wildly from that on Earth. Probably the most significant change is Neptune’s distance from the sun and thus lack of natural sunlight and heat. While artificial environments that simulate sunlight are now common, many residents of Neptune’s colonies still use the original scientists’ solution to life away from the sun: vitamin D treatments. The overall culture of Neptune prefers to spend time in large enclosed urban environments, often ones that don’t even attempt to make a facsimile of a natural sky. 
Denizens of Earth who visit Neptune are often baffled at how even visiting a locale with an imitation sky or 
a park is treated the same way one might regard a day at the beach or a hiking trip in the mountains, rather 
than as a part of everyday life as it is on Earth. 
The original culture of science and research remains strong in Neptune despite the wide growth in more 
mainstream residential and industrial areas. The region of space around Neptune has by far the largest 
number of active permanent Unown Gates in the Sol Sector, and it is a central hub for traveling throughout 
the Terran Federation, making it an ideal spot to start a campaign or a home base for the players. There are several important organizations in Neptune’s settlements, though of course you should invent your own too. 
Hightower Neptune University: Situated in Neptune’s inner ring, this institution is well regarded in many 
academic fields ranging from the humanities to the social and natural sciences. However, it is most well 
known for being established by the scientists who headed the initial research into the systems of Cassiopeia, and it holds a certain prestige for that status alone. 
HNU also owns a handful of ships equipped with Unowns and Rune Masters for interstellar travel. The 
focus on this small fleet is on discovering the origin of Cassiopeia and hopefully making contact with any 
remnants of the alien civilization that created the vessel. There’s a clear connection between them, Earth, and the Elgyem and Beheeyem that must have arrived on our planet from space at some point, and the 
researchers are dying to connect the dots. 
Shenzhou Academy: Named after China’s manned space craft, the Academy has taken on highly varied 
interests over its century and a half of existence. It began as a research group looking into the sublight (non-FTL) engines on the Cassiopeia, aiming to take the lead on space-faring technologies. With the discovery of 
the true purpose of the Unown and the Gates they could create, this endeavor was scrapped, and the re-
searchers expanded into the group that would eventually head the construction of the Dyson Sphere around 
Neptune. Once that project was completed, they shifted gears once more and became a center for study of 
Pokémon biology as well as human evolution, particularly psionic humans. 
The Bellarosa Group : This large corporation coordinates travel and immigration around the Neptune area. 
It owns a large number of the Unown Gates established in the area and conducts regular surveys of the 
Neptunian population for those with the knack to become Rune Masters. The board of directors is chaired 
by a group of linked Clefairy, and among the corporations and organizations around Neptune, the colonies 
controlled by the Bellarosa group have the highest concentration of Clefairy citizens. 
97
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
art by SpaghettiUrchin at http://spagettiurchin.deviantart.com/The Luna Sector
The primarily Clefairy-populated sector of space named after their original home on the moon. The Cle-fairy originally lived in tunnels under the surface of the moon, where the unique properties of the  sky-scraper-sized Moon Stones that were found there created an environment capable of sustaining life. By the time humans made contact, the Clefairies had less advanced technologies than the humans all-around but excelled in computer science and engineering in ways most humans couldn’t comprehend at the time. 
In addition to the intelligent Clefairy, a number of species not indigenous to the Earth were found here, in-
cluding Dunsparce, Lunatone, Solrock, Jigglypuff, and Munna. Shards of Moon Stone brought back to Earth were shown to cause species such as the Nidoran line to evolve, much to their owners’ surprise at first. 
Now, the Clefairy have expanded to a binary star system closer to the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Both 
stars are red giants, and there are three rocky planets in the star system, Sieophus, Cenides, and Sumia, 
affectionately named in a manner meant to mimic what Clefairy thought the names of human mythological 
figures sounded like. They found the practice of how humans named Sol Sector’s planets to be amusing. 
Each of these planets is smaller than the Earth and tends to have a Gravity of 2. Among the species discov-
ered on these planets are Larvitar, Lileep, and Diglett. 
Sieophus is the hub planet of the Sector, surrounded by Un-
own Gates and with its own branch of the Bellarosa Group. 
Human terraforming technology has allowed a wider variety of species to flourish in a controlled section of the planet’s 
surface. Clefairy civilization continues to make its home 
largely in underground cave complexes here. 
Cenides is remarkable for large pools of a strange new liquid 
metal that were discovered dotted across its surface. A large 
number of Steel Type Pokémon were originally discovered 
here, including Aron, Mawile, and Ferroseed. Scientists are 
attempting to adapt this material to space craft and weaponry.
Sumia hosts Aria Co., the largest space exploration organiza-
tion with a majority Clefairy membership. Unlike most mod-
ern space exploration organizations who focus on discovering 
alien life, Aria Co. seeks out new materials that can be used in 
scientific research and industrial production.
Sumia is also the foremost site of Dream Mist research in the 
Terran Federation. Dream Mist research among the Clefairies 
began on the moon before they made contact with humanity, 
using the Dream Mist emitted by the Munna native to their 
homes. Now, the advancements of over two centuries have re-
sulted in the creation of Cresselia, an artificial Pokémon with 
immense control and influence over dreams. 
98
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Other Sectors
Aside from the Luna and Sol Sectors, the Terran Federation has three more populated star systems in its network. This book won’t tell you what they are exactly; instead it will provide a number of ideas for systems you can integrate into the Terran Federation as you see fit. 
•	A star system around a white dwarf. The planets around this system are uniformly cold, and Pokémon 
such as Cryogonal may be discovered in this sector. 
•	A star system primarily filled with gas giant planets. Research here is done into the strange and unique gases that make up their atmospheres, as well as the Pokémon species who make their home in those harsh environments. 
•	A star system laden with more ruined space craft similar to the Cassiopeia. There are no planets here, only a large asteroid field, but scientists suspect the asteroids are the remnants of destroyed planets.
•	A star system that includes planets with highly elliptical orbits, bringing those worlds very close to 
their host star for part of the year and very far away for the rest. Pokémon found in this system take on 
seasonal forms much like Deerling and Sawsbuck but in a much more extreme fashion, often changing 
Types from Fire to Ice according to the season. Alternatively, this is where Castforms come from.
•	A star system that is surrounded only by a protoplanetary disk, but one that has somehow managed to 
produce organic compounds. Strange Pokémon that are adapted to travel in the vacuum of space and 
have little need for gases like oxygen may be found here. Human and Clefairy settlements would take 
the form of city-sized space craft permanently parked in the sector. 
•	A star system entirely contained in a Dyson Sphere made up of solar panels, meant to capture every bit of energy output from the star in the system. Such a system would likely be highly advanced and at the forefront of industrial production and scientific research. Perhaps one such system is populated by a 
Data Lifeform Rotom civilization.
 
Building an Age of Cassiopeia Campaign
The most likely setup for a group of player characters in an Age of Cassiopeia campaign is as interstellar 
explorers, either owning or assigned to a large spaceship that jumps to uncharted planets in search of life and other discoveries. Several organizations could fund and back such endeavors. Players could work for the Shenzhou Academy, seeking out new samples of alien life to study, or they could be members of HNU in search for the origins of the Cassiopeia space craft. 
This setting write-up hasn’t touched much on issues of war and politics, but those are certainly themes that 
can be incorporated into an Age of Cassiopeia campaign. A human vs Clefairy conflict would be a boring way to handle this, but resource scarcity, territory disputes, and all the other traditional reasons for going to war still exist in space-faring civilization. The players could take on the role of soldiers fighting for a sector, a single planet, even a corporation. Or they might even simply be civilians caught in the middle of a conflict trying to escape with their lives. 
Even if you don’t intend to run a campaign about jumping from world to world and exploring the galaxy, 
the Age of Cassiopeia setting could still be handy. Perhaps the players are doing the initial exploration for one world or star system, and the entire campaign revolves around that. This may even be one of the worlds of the civilization that produced the Cassiopeia, and it is covered with empty ruins like every other sign of their society has been. 
99
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Plot Hooks and Encounter Ideas
Here is an assortment of ideas for GMs who need a last minute session idea or some hooks they could 
throw to their players to give them more options to explore. Not all of these are necessarily meant to be used in the same campaign, and some of them establish facts about the setting you may wish to ignore in your campaign. 
Campaign Hooks
The ReturnToward the beginning of the Terran Federation’s explorations into space, a large group of research and resi-dential vessels focused on human advancement and psionics suddenly jumped through an Unown Gate into uncharted space, detonating an explosive that destroyed the Gate behind them and made it impossible to 
follow them. Why they disappeared is a mystery. Perhaps fear and misunderstandings about psionics drove 
the psychic humans away, feeling persecuted. Perhaps their psychic inclinations told them something we 
wouldn’t understand. 
What’s important now, however, is they’ve returned, and they seek war, driven by the anger of the persecut-
ed, an all-encompassing prescient vision that drives them together as one, the will of an alien psychic ‘god’ , or simply a desire for power and conquest. In their century of separation from humanity, their technology has changed drastically, becoming much more reliant on psionic operators and advancing in strange and often disturbing ways. They bring with them a variety of Pokémon previously unknown to civilization, such as Claydol and Sigilyph, and their Unowns have taken on the strange form of clay tablets, very much unlike the technology first discovered on the Cassiopeia. 
art by guodon at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=2742245
100
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
What Lies in the Shadow of Cassiopeia?
The players discover more ruins similar to the Cassiopeia, but as they go to investigate, a psionic field spreads to surround their ship that disables their Unown Gate technology, and it appears as if parts of the structure are active. Players with Elgyem or Beheeyem with them witness a similar reaction to that de-
scribed previously in this setting description; the Pok émon stare towards the source of the psionic emission, 
enraptured by whatever they experience. 
Further investigation allows the players to discover the source of the psionic emission: a group of powerful  
Deoxys. These Deoxys are tied to the civilization that created to the Cassiopeia in some manner, which is up 
to you. They may be ancient guardians created by them to safeguard the secrets of their technology and to 
guard the data banks that store their minds. They may be the new form of this race, that has created Deox-ys bodies to replace the Elgyem and Beheeyem forms they previously had. They may even be the race that destroyed the Cassiopeia’s civilization, and now they will set their eyes on humanity and the Clefairies. 
Remember when it was said the Cassiopeia had been heavily damaged long before it reached Earth? Per -
haps their civilization was running from something, and perhaps they were seeking refuge in the civilized 
space of Earth, hoping that their Elgyem and Beheeyem brethren had evolved intelligence and created advanced technology in the time they were separated. If you choose to explore this aspect of the setting, Deoxys or a race that created them could be a potent enemy to throw at the players. 
Encounter and Session Ideas
•	The players are near the planet of Cenides when a distress signal is sent out. Muks have wandered into the pools of liquid metal and caused a violent chemical reaction. Now metallic Muks have gone out of control and begun to attack nearby settlements, consuming all the metal in their path. 
•	The Bellarosa Group needs a team to investigate the destruction of one of their Unown Gates. Every ship that has jumped to the vicinity has disappeared. When the players arrive, they discover a wormhole configuration gone wrong – producing a black hole that they must now escape the proximity of, rescu-ing any others in nearby ships before they reach the event horizon. 
•	Routine travel through a sparsely populated system is disrupted when the only established Unown Gate out of the system has been shut down by a local authorities due to a smuggling investigation. The players must explore the worlds and space stations nearby to uncover a ring of Pokémon smugglers and thieves before local authorities will allow them passage out of the system.
•	Experiments with Psychic Pokémon DNA and psionic humans have gone terribly wrong in a Shenzhou Academy research facility. The scientists have accidentally created a Mewtwo by using Mew DNA in gene therapy on a psychic, and it’s up to the players to clean up, whether through diplomacy or force. 
•	A field of asteroids filled with rocks similar to evolution stones have caused Pok émon in nearby colonies 
and passing space craft to evolve in dangerous and ultimately lethal ways. The players must investigate 
this phenomena and return with a cure to the affliction – before their own Pokémon fall prey to it.
•	The players return to Earth or Neptune for a celebration of the 200th anniversary of the boarding of the Cassiopeia. Fun and Pokémon Contests are aplenty, and the eyes of the whole Terran Federation are on 
them if they choose to participate. Fame and honor are on the line!
•	The players take a trip to Mars to relax and end up meeting an esteemed professor from HNU who chal-
lenges them to a contest to catch the rarest Pokémon in the Sol Sector within a set amount of time. The 
players have a chance to impress a powerful potential ally if they can handle traveling all over the system 
to capture rare Pokémon on a timer.
101
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
art by seafh, no artist website available
“This study reviews the momentous achievements made in recent years in the domain of somatic gene 
therapy as it relates to transfer of eevee (canis muto) genes to other species. The first gene therapy protocols to stimulate activation of the recipient eevee genes  in growlithe (canis asiaticus) are explained and remaining obstacles to pervasive and versatile applications of the technique are discussed. As a genetically engineered species, eevee demonstrates qualities in its genetic make-up that allow its DNA to be easily adapted for gene therapy in a variety of species and may allow for the widespread replication of the unique and volatile qualities of its maturation and growth. 
The onset of oncogenesis in recipient test subjects remains a limiting factor in the long-term viability of ex-
isting techniques, but marked strides have been made in refining the crystals for radiation treatments used in activating successfully integrated genes. Initial experiments demonstrate that these attempts to prevent or mitigate the negative side effects of elemental crystal exposure have promising results. ” 
— Analysis of eevee (canis muto) applications in gene therapy, S Johansson, N Bekoff, Nature Medicine 2073 
Babel Campaign Setting
Genre : Cyberpunk, Hard Sci-Fi
Features: Corporate Dominance, Ethics of Technology, Commercialization of Pokémon Battling
Technology: Robotic Age Tech Level, Cybernetic Augmentations, Genetic EngineeringRecommended Soundtrack: Ghost in the Shell: SAC OST, Psycho-Pass OST, Deus Ex OST, Nine Inch Nails Recommended Trainer Class Additions: Engineer, Upgrader Important Rules and Concepts: Cybernetic Augmentations, Augmented RealityBABEL
102
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Technology and Setting Basics
Babel is a late-21st century campaign setting with a cyberpunk flair. It makes an attempt to remain more on 
the hard side of science than soft where possible, but Pokémon’s inclination toward soft sci-fi makes this dif-ficult. Poké Balls do not exist in the Babel setting, and Evolution is not an instantaneous process but instead Evolutionary stages represent the stages of life that a Pokémon grows through as it matures. 
In fact, the central scientific dilemma of the age is that of genetic engineering. Eevee is a recently created 
genetically engineered Pokémon, and its genes are the basis for all Elemental Stone evolutions. All Pokémon that normally evolve via Evolution Stone are only naturally 
found in evolutionary stages up to the one immediately preced-
ing their stone evolution. It was only in very recent years where Evolution Stones were invented as a means to emit controlled amounts and types of radiation that reacted with Eevee’s genes to direct the path the Pokémon took in its growth, again as a slow process rather than instantaneous evolution. Recent devel-opments in gene therapy have allowed other species to be given the genes that allow Eevee its malleability in growth, and only specially treated instances of Pokémon such as Clefairy, Vulpix, Lampent, and other stone evolutions are able to evolve through this method.
The breakthrough was made in a research lab in the city of 
Heizhou, a densely populated multi-tiered metropolis that acts as a major node for cutting edge genetic engineering and cyber -
netic augmentation, research. The city of Heizhou comprises the majority of the Babel campaign setting. While you are of course free to come up with other locales and new cities for your cam-paign, the material provided here will center around Heizhou and largely assumes you’re running a campaign centered around the single city. 
Biotechnology and medical advances make up some of the most stunning differences between contempo-
rary society and the technology of the Babel setting, enabling parents to engineer their children to be free from genetic defects and improving the survivability of cardiovascular disease and cancer. At the same time, a greater understanding of biological processes has created a slew of new drugs and medicines that may have yet to be observed consequences, as well as gene therapies administered by Technical Machines to Pokémon that allow them to gain unusual abilities. 
Perhaps more worrying, cybernetic augmentations have been developed that may prove to be the separating 
factor between the haves and have-nots in the new technological society. 
Marvels of architecture and engineering have also changed the way humanity lives by allowing cities like 
Heizhou to literally reach into the clouds with their multiple layers. On the city streets, augmented reality 
coats the urban landscape, increasing the density of information a citizen processes in their daily routines. 
art by naroclie at http://naroclie.deviantart.com/
103
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Tone and Atmosphere in a Babel Campaign
Heizhou is not a technological utopia. For every citizen living the life with perfectly selected genes, state 
of the art cybernetic augmentations, and the best medical treatment in the world, dozens more toil in the lower depths of the city for a pittance or make their living as deniable assets for the megacorporations that wield true power in the city. For every researcher who makes their mark on the scientific world in the labs of Heizhou, there is a trail of failed experiments and unfortunate test subjects or collateral damage. Human and Pokémon lives alike are ruined or tossed aside daily, victims to the hubris of scien-
tists who need not answer to any 
government or regulatory com-mittee in the relentless pursuit of progress and profit. 
Calamitous omens should scar 
the cityscape during a Babel campaign; players should be in-troduced to the city of Heizhou just as the latent tensions hidden in the city are boiling to the surface. Economic and political jostling within the city slowly transforms into outright sabotage and assassination. Experiments with genetically engineered organisms or other transhuman technologies have finally gone too far, and the byproducts of these reckless ventures are loosed into the city. They hide in the shadows of the lower city for now, and the media says not a word about them. But eventually someone will have to clean up the mess, and that someone may well be the players. 
The towering city of Heizhou reaches ever higher through the clouds, but as with the ancient tale of Babel, 
everyone is waiting for humanity to take one final misstep before the tenuous unity of the city is rent asun-der and the society there scattered to the winds. 
This is not to say life in Heizhou is all a cautionary tale about the dangers of technology. Far from it. Ad-
vances in gene therapy and medical treatments in Heizhou improve the lives of millions within the city and billions abroad. Never before has information flowed more freely through the augmented reality networks of the city, ensuring high rates of literacy and education. Pokémon battling for sport has entered a new renaissance with the invention of TMs, Evolution Stones, and biomonitoring chips which ensure battles stay safe and well under control. 
If there is any failing to be found, it is not in the technology that pulses through the veins of the city but in 
the fallible, selfish, and all too human individuals who direct its flow. There are no grand conspiracies in 
Heizhou. There is no council of megacorporations that convenes behind closed doors to decide the fate of 
the city’s denizens, nor is there a shadowy figure pulling the strings behind all its enigmatic scientific machi-
nations. The city is careening toward disaster, but it is one cobbled together from the individual wills of peo-ple, albeit powerful people, competing against each other to achieve their ambitions and reach for the sky.
art by seafh, no artist website available
104
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Life in Heizhou
The multiple tiers or levels of t he city roughly correspond to the socioeconomic class of the denizens who 
make their homes there. Most residents of Heizhou live in the lower levels, either on the ground or even in 
underground portions of the city. 
The large corporate laboratories in the city often have residential complexes built into or adjacent to them, 
allowing the researchers who work there to live in a location that is both convenient for them when it comes to commuting and convenient for the corporation for keeping close tabs on them if necessary. These resi-dences, along with the homes of other upper middle class citizens, are found a few stories above the ground. 
Heizhou does not have a discrete set of flat planes in its multi-level arrangement. Instead, skyscrapers in 
Heizhou are much more akin to arcologies, megastructures with all the facilities to sustain a population within, and cover much more groun d area than contemporary buildings. They typically contain commer -
cial centers, industry, and residential areas all in one building. Thick tunnels of glass and steel stretch from building to building at various points, filled with more shops and malls and even the occasional high class apartment perfectly positioned in the middle of a bridge between two large urban complexes. 
The richest of the rich, from the CEOs of the city’s megacorps to high ranking Pokémon League officials, 
live in posh apartments built atop the highest skyscrapers, literally overlooking the clouds and seemingly a world apart from the rest of the city. 
Capturing and Raising Pokémon Without Poké Balls, it is much more difficult for ordinary Trainers to keep large stables of Pokémon, especially as living space is at a premium within the city. As a result, many Trainers strain to find enough space to keep even the League regulation of a full team of six Pokémon, and that’s before factoring in the cost of feeding them and providing medical care. 
It is trendy for Trainers in Heizhou to 
use species that evolve via Evolution Stone, as it is the city that both engi-neered the first ever Eevee and then 
subsequently discovered methods of gene therapy to apply its unique growth characteristics to other species 
of Pokémon. An Arcanine or Ninetales kept as a household pet is a sign of status, the aquariums of the city 
boast of their Cloysters that produce the shiniest and largest pearls, and hip new Trainers aspire to one day 
raise their own Gallade or Chandelure to battle for them. Eevees themselves are an incredibly rare breed, and a Trainer who has an Eevee evolution on their team is the envy of all their peers, regardless of their actual battling skill or the combat aptitude of their Pokémon. 
art by seafh, no artist website available
105
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
In lieu of Poké Balls, mundane methods are used to capture most Pokémon, such as a tranquilizer rifle, 
simple cage traps, or special containers for the stranger Pokémon species. And without Poké Balls, Trainers have to think carefully about bringing their Pokémon around with them. It’s frowned upon in Heizhou to casually bring hulking beasts with you everywhere you go, and a big team can get unwieldy. As for actually hunting Pokémon, many beginning Trainers simply seek out their quarry in the less well-maintained under -
ground portions of the city, where Grimers and Magnemites lurk in abandoned tunnels and where if you’re lucky you may find a pack of Smeargle or a wandering Ghost Type. Those with more spare time travel to the outskirts of the city where scraps of nature can still be found blurring into the urban environment. 
However, by far the most popular locale for capturing Pokémon is the Silph Co. owned Heizhou Nature 
and Wildlife Preserve, colloquially referred to as the Safari Zone for the quaint fleet of jeeps used to travel 
around the sprawling preserve, mirroring 20th century and early 21st century safari ventures into the wil-
derness. The Safari Zone is a towering megastructure at the heart of Heizhou which is filled with artificial 
Pokémon environments from the deep underground cave levels to the open air aviary in the clouds. 
Employees at Silph usually receive a monthly allotment of all-day tickets for the Safari Zone that they can 
use for themselves or hand out to friends and family, and there are frequent public promotions giving out 
tickets to publicize the Pokémon League and encourage new Trainers to take up the sport. Aside from that, 
the Safari Zone sells tickets and season passes to any Trainer willing and able to pay. The cost can range 
from 200 to the thousands, depending on which areas of the Safari Zone are being visited, how long the visit is, and whether or not the Trainer is borrowing capture equipment from Silph for the endeavor. 
Pokémon Centers
Sadly, medical technology has not advanced to the point where everyone can receive totally free medical 
treatment for their Pokémon at any time. Basic clinics are available for free, allowing Trainers to let their companions rest off their injuries without much worry about infection or complications, but the kind of fast 
treatment that gets a heavily battered and injured Pokémon back on its feet and in battling shape in the span 
of mere hours will come at a price.
Technical Machines
Technical Machines are not administered by everyday Trainers in Heizhou, nor do they take effect imme-diately. Rather than buy a syringe, CD, or machine, Trainers take their Pokémon to a Silph Co. clinic and pay for a one-time gene therapy treatment. This is a new and experimental process that induces a Pokémon 
to grow extra organs over a period of days or weeks that allow them to perform Moves they would not be 
able to otherwise. Trainers with Features that allow them to teach their Pokémon Tutor Moves may choose 
to fluff their abilities as the knowledge and understanding of how to raise a Pokémon so that applied gene 
therapies manifest the best results in their Pokémon. 
The slow nature of both TM learning and evolution itself means it is recommended that there be periods of 
days or weeks of downtime in a Babel campaign to allow Pokémon time to grow offscreen into their new 
forms or recuperate from TM treatment and learn to use their new techniques.Mechanically speaking, what this means is that the 
core pdf rules for Pokémon Centers are treated as advanced medical procedures that cost money. 500 per Pokémon per treatment is a fair amount to charge.

106
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Augmented Reality
Life would not be the same in Heizhou without its pervasive Augmented Reality network. While wearing an AR glove, a citizen of the city can speak a name while miming a phone with their hand to call someone instantly, with live video available in the corner of their glasses or goggle display. Every basic pair of AR glasses or goggles comes with a free app that can overlay one’s view of the city with directions and colorful guiding arrows. In exchange for this convenience, AR advertisements are commonplace in Heizhou. All this reliance on AR has created a hacking pandemic in Heizhou, and cybercrime is one area where megacorps often take a back seat to governmental authorities – at least until their assets are at risk. Corporations tend to insist on investigating their own cyber intrusions. Babel takes a more realistic approach to hacking and does not use the Cyberworld Hacking optional rules, though virtual worlds are still used for other purposes. 
Most of the AR infrastructure in the city is maintained by the Devon Corporation, and they also sell the 
majority of the AR interface technologies, from gloves to goggles to contact lenses. Most homes are provid-
ed Internet access through Devon, and most communications technologies are produced by them as well.
Cybernetic Augmentations
Concurrent with the development of bioengineering techniques, and equally as controversial, has been the rise of cybernetic augmentation. The technology was originally conceived to produce better prosthetics, but 
as it grew, commercial demand from the rich and powerful directed research toward replacement of healthy 
body parts and augmentation past human limits rather than simply restoring function. 
Galactic Enterprises took over the augmentation market by capitalizing on the returning popularity of 
Pokémon battling, developing a line of augments that could be safely installed in a variety of Pokémon spe-
cies. At first, these were considered of dubious legality in Pokémon League matches, but Galactic’s influence 
over the League quickly swayed them to a different conclusion. 
Augmentations are not perfect in the Babel campaign setting, and expensive anti-rejection drugs are re-
quired to avoid lethal side-effects, similar to modern organ transplants. Employees of Galactic Enterprises 
are encouraged to have augmentations installed for themselves and their Pokémon, and they are provided 
with a free supply of the requisite anti-rejection drugs for as long as they remain employed by the company. 
High ranking League officials also often receive a free hand-out, but for everyone else, it is an expensive in-
vestment to seek out cybernetic augmentations, and the jury is still out on whether or not there are danger -
ous long term effects to augmentation. Not that Galactic Enterprises will ever publicly voice that. 
The MegaCorps
Power in Heizhou resides not in its local government or even the regional or national government, but instead in the hands of the major corporations in the city. In addition to running the research labs that make Heizhou famous, these megacorps provide the majority of the other jobs in the city as well by running everything from power generation for the city to its large shopping malls to even taking care of law enforce-ment via their private security forces as well as the Rangers they sponsor. 
The megacorps of Heizhou are in constant competition despite their cooperation on the Pokémon League. 
Corporate espionage is becoming increasingly common, and megacorps often recruit teams of deniable assets called Runners to break into competing labs and offices without a trail leading back to them.
107
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Silph Co.
Silph Co. ’s main contribution to the Pokémon battling renaissance is the invention of the Technical Machine, a universal gene therapy machine that allows Pokémon to learn a variety of Moves they would not normally be able to learn. This has revolutionized the battling scene, and Trainers are always talking about the newest tricks that their favorite battling idols have brought to the arena. 
However, Silph Co. ’s largest presence in Heizhou is the Safari Zone it runs. 
Even citizens uninterested in the competitive battling scene come to visit, either to gawk at the exotic species within or to find a new family pet to bring home. To encourage Trainers to join and compete in the Pokémon League, certain portions of the Safari Zone are restricted to Trainers with a certain number of League Badges or who have earned enough Points in the League’s system. 
To capitalize on their ownership of the Safari Zone, Silph also produces 
the majority of the Pokémon capture technologies used by Trainers. This is helped in no small part by the fact that the regulatory committees that exist to ensure captures are performed in an ethical manner are merely puppets controlled by Silph. Silph designed tranquilizer formulas or static containment cages will quickly receive approval for commercial production and accolades for their safety and humaneness, while competi-tors will find their products stalled in an endless limbo of bureaucratic red tape. 
Rumor has it that Silph Co. sponsors and created the Runner collective called Team Rocket to steal 
Pokémon from Devon and Galactic labs. The more conspiratorial among the populace even believe they were created to act as an antagonist to the Pokémon Rangers and popularize the Guardian Sign TV show.
Devon Corporation
Devon Corporation is most famous recently for sponsoring the team of scientists, headed by Norman Bekoff, who engineered the world’s first Eevee as well as the development of the first Evolution Stones and the gene therapies that enabled their use. Prior to that point, they had been struggling to find a foothold in the competitive Pokémon battling market, and they were considering withdrawing from their joint sponsorship of the Pokémon League to focus on tele-communications technologies and augmented reality, scaling back their Pokémon department to solely focus on their Porygon line. 
The last big innovation they had developed was the Fossil Reanima-
tion Machine, which allowed viable DNA to be extracted from fossils to create an egg for Pokémon that had long become extinct. The technology was a huge boon to petrologists and Pokémon research-ers around the world, but the niche of fossilized Pokémon didn’t catch on very well among both casual and competitive Trainers. 
all logos taken from or modified from official Pokémon art
108
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Evolution Stones are a combination of rare, naturally occurring radioactive compounds and highly ad-
vanced technology to refine the radiation output of those stones. Rather than selling Evolution Stones directly, Devon has a number of clinics spread throughout Heizhou and the rest of the world where Trainers can bring in their Pokémon for a series of gene therapy and radiation exposure treatments over the course of two weeks which will stimulate their Pokémon to grow and mature into a new form.
Galactic Enterprises 
Galactic Enterprises has a questionable background, and rumor has it that it was once the front for a powerful criminal syndicate. That may still be the case if the rumor holds true, but at the least, Galactic does seem to have taken on a number of legitimate endeavors that have benefited people and Pokémon around the world. 
Most notably, Galactic Enterprises leads the world in the development of 
cybernetic augmentation technology, both in the form of prosthetics to restore normal bodily function and enhanced models that allow the user to exceed normal human limitations. Recently, they’ve developed a line of Pokémon-compatible cybernetics in order to compete with Silph Co. ’s TMs and the competitive edge that they can give League Trainers.
Outside of the realm of cybernetics and medical technology, Galactic En-
terprises is also well known for developments in robotics and engineering.  To match and compete with Devon Corporation’s Porygon, they invented the artificial Rotom Pokémon along with a line of appliances that are compatible with the species. Pokébots are also a popular product line they share with the other two megacorps, and they are also responsible for inventing Pokémon such as Magnemite and Beldum for industrial use. 
Galactic Enterprises also has a bioengineering department, though it is not as lauded as either Silph’s 
or Devon’s. Cynics in the city speculate that this must mean they’re performing even more dubious ex-periments than the other two megacorps, and rumors abound of research into splicing the genes of rare Pokémon with time and space warping abilities into humans. 
The Pokémon League
Heizhou is the center of the Pokémon battling renaissance and expectedly has its own Pokémon League with all the structures and offices of a full region-wide League. The League itself is sponsored jointly by the three megacorps of Heizhou: Silph Co., Devon Corporation, and Galactic Enterprises. Eight League Are-nas are placed throughout the city, each headed by a League Admin who Trainers aspire to challenge for a League Badge. League Admins frequently design their Pokémon teams to advertise new products from the three big megacorps in the city, and they’re often chosen from researchers or invited directly by the megacorps. Silph Co. designs custom TM Moves for League Admins to advertise their services.
The Pokémon League has a seasonal format, with all Trainers registered in the League competing for points 
that can be gained by defeating League Admins, competing in tournaments, and participating in other events such as capture competitions in the Safari Zone. The final chance to earn points in a season is the season finale League Tournament which requires all eight League Badges to enter The top competitors re-

109
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
ceive an opportunity to challenge the Elite 4 and Champion of the League in a series of back to back battles 
for more points, prizes, and glory. At the end of the tournament, the five top-scoring Trainers for the season have the opportunity to become the Elite 4 and Champion for the next season of League competition. The Elite 4 and Champion are almost always called on to produce commercials for the products they used on their Pokémon that helped drive them to victory. The prospect is not only a guarantee of fame and name recognition throughout Heizhou but also incredibly lucrative from a financial standpoint, and many Train-ers consider the time and money they sink into their hobby as an investment towards this eventual pay-off.
Skilled Trainers usually seek sponsorships from the three megacorps when competing in the Pokémon 
League, wearing advertisements on their clothing and using the company’s signature items on their Pokémon to in exchange for funding, access to training facilities, and free gear. 
In addition to the main one versus one League battle attraction, the Pokémon League sponsors a number of 
other events, including team arena battles where the Trainers fight alongside their Pokémon and Pokémon Contests that test the grace of a Pokémon rather than its battling skill.
The Pokémon Rangers
The Pokémon Rangers are a semi-autonomous group of Pokémon Trainers that act as a direct subsidiary of the Pokémon League. They are an unofficial law enforcement group within the city and have been given jurisdiction by the megacorps over wide swaths of the city. Their specific roles change on a day to day basis, ranging from patrolling the Safari Zone to escorting VIPs. 
However, one factor remains constant. Rangers are universally public figures, and they are always on call to 
respond to major crimes or Pokémon outbreaks in the city. The address, contact info, and daily routines of Rangers are known by a media crew that can show up in an instant to cover their exploits. There is a popu-lar TV show called Guardian Signs streamed on the Internet for the world to see, sponsored by the three megacorps, that covers the Rangers stopping crimes or saving civilians from escaped lab experiments and Pokémon from the Safari Zone. 
Positive and exciting coverage on this show, such as skillfully 
capturing criminals, earns the Rangers hero points, which are also in part determined by public voting. Rangers who attract more viewers are offered more lucrative contracts, and those Rangers who fail to live up to their duties are quickly cut from the program. Each season of Guardian Signs, the Ranger with the most hero points is named the Ranger Commander. 
Rangers almost universally don flashy outfits to stand out from 
their competitors and to advertise their sponsors. However, Rangers differ on how they act as public figures. Some Rangers are well-known League competitors or even former Elite 4 or League Admins, while others prefer to keep their identities se-cret (from all but their media crew, of course) for the mystique and their own safety. 
art by yui at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1494521
110
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Battle Company
The Battle Company is a smaller corporation composed of ex-researchers at the big three megacorps: Silph, Devon, and Galactic. The identities of the original founders are unknown, but it is common knowledge that they got off to a rocky start due to the simple fact that the highly competitive megacorps do not like to let go of their valuable assets – including skilled researchers. Even today, it is rumored that the CEO for the Battle Company is a figurehead, and the real man behind the corporation spends his day to day life pretending to be a janitor in his own company in order to monitor its operations without attracting attention. The found-ers turned to hiring runners and other mercenaries for their own protection, and this is how they began becoming involved in the business of producing battle items. 
The Battle Company largely produces Held Items for Pokémon. These items, such as Razor Claws and 
Incenses, are less effective than the wetware Galactic Enterprises produces, but they can easily be swapped between Pokémon and don’t have a negative effect on their health. 
While the Battle Company is quite small compared to the three big megacorps, they do have one particular 
advantage that gives them influence throughout the entirety of Heizhou: underneath the outer coating of being a company that sells products for Trainers competing in the Pokémon League, the Battle Company also runs a highly competent squad of mercenaries that sometimes even operate outside of Heizhou, de-pending on where they’re needed. These mercenaries grew out of the runners hired initially by the founders for their own protection, and they’ve become renowned and feared throughout the city. 
It’s this influence that gives the Battle Company enough clout to ensure that their items are legal for use in 
Pokémon League battles throughout the city, despite the origins of the corporation. It also helped that until very recently, the Battle Company’s Held Items were generally considered of a lower priority to acquire for Trainers compared to TMs, evolution items, or wetware. 
However, the whole city has been shaken up by the publicization of a new technology loosely based on 
Devon’s Evolutionary Stones. The Battle Company has dubbed it “Mega Evolution” , and it requires the use of a Mega Ring worn by a Trainer and a Mega Stone held by the Pokémon. The Mega Stone operates in a similar fashion to any other Evolution-ary Stone, but the changes it induces in a Pokémon are far less stable – hence the need for a Mega Ring to control the power of the Mega Evolution. The ma-jor benefit, however, is that Pokémon that were thought to have reached their final evolutionary form can benefit from Mega Evolution, giving them an edge over their foes. It’s not yet clear how the city will react to this new technology, which has applications for private security and for runners as well, in addition to League Trainers. 
art by kuuneru at 
http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=434505
111
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Key Locales in Heizhou
Heizhou is a well-connected city with a fast set of trams, trains, and elevators that can easily get citizens 
from one side of the city to the other through public transit alone. Good thing too, because the city is abso-lutely filled with highly varied districts and locations for players to explore. Here are a few ideas. 
Dafeng Plaza 
One of the few places in the highest levels of the city that is visited by citizens of all socioeconomic levels, Dafeng Plaza is an open air marketplace, park, and Pokémon battle arena set atop one of the tallest build-ings in Heizhou. Here, everyone starts with a blank slate, and the general etiquette is to forget or ignore gaps in wealth and status when challenging others to Pokémon battles. Corporate scouts looking for Trainers to sponsor often make their way to Dafeng Plaza incognito, sometimes posing as one of the many hawkers of tasty street food or handy Pokémon medications that line the walkways here. Between battles, Trainers often listen to musicians play at the outdoors auditoriums or participate in Contests on stage. 
The Dusk Stone Emporium / Jin’an District
What was once one of many nearly indistinguishable hybrid commercial/residential districts became a hotspot for Pokémon Trainers and battle enthusiasts overnight when Devon Corporation opened one of their clinics inside and debuted their Dusk Stone treatment, giving the now burgeoning district its nick-name. The entirety of the Jin’an District is contained in a massive pyramid-shaped arcology with a commer -
cial core at the center and residential areas spread around the perimeter. Its growth in popularity seemingly has no bounds, and now both Silph Co. and Galactic Enterprises have responded to Devon’s move by open-ing clinics for TM application and cybernetics surgery throughout the district as well. 
The Grand Library / Changshou District
Not actually a traditional library, the Changshou district is a series of smaller skyscrapers (by Heizhou stan-dards anyway) whose AR networks are designed for academic research and reviewing the scientific accom-plishments of Heizhou. Several of the city’s educational institutions make their home here, and one of the skyscrapers in the district houses a museum made entirely of AR “objects” that traces the history of the city back to its founding with digital representations of its most famous scientists and their discoveries. 
The Safari Zone District
While the Safari Zone itself has laid claim to an entire megastructure-sized skyscraper in Heizhou, that alone does not comprise the district that the Safari Zone is considered to be contained within. A shell of smaller buildings house aquariums, biology labs, and shops offering the latest in Pokémon capture technol-ogy. Several schools have also established themselves in the area, specializing in teaching Trainers how to track and capture rare and powerful Pokémon.
The Lower Depths / Licheng District
Far beneath the glitz and glamor of the upper city, a series of long elevator shafts lead down to an under -
ground residential and industrial district of the city. It is rumored that Galactic Enterprises possesses a vast network of spies and informants throughout the district to protect an illegal bioengineering project of im-mense scale. The fact the occasional outbreak of violent mutant Pokémon can be found here lends credence to these claims, but no one has proven the existence of illegal research facilities. As might be expected, The Lower Depths has many characteristics of a red-light district and is a hotbed for sex and drugs.
112
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Heizhou Public Security Task Force Building
Even with the massive influence of the megacorps looming over the city, the government has not lost all autonomy yet in Heizhou. The Public Security Task Force handles the most dangerous of matters known to the local government: cases where the government may have to oppose the acts of one or more megacorps. Officers of the Task Force risk their lives to uncover dangerous experiments and corporate plots, though there is often little the government can do in an official capacity even when the truth is uncovered. For this reason, Task Force members tend to work undercover and do not disclose their line of work to the public so they can take extralegal actions. In this way, the Task Force tends to operate much like an organized band of secretive Runners, though the higher-ups of the organization consider this a necessary evil. Their headquar -
ters itself is cloistered away in a shell of other offices and shopping malls, and it is said that secret tunnels and elevators exist to allow officers to report to work in secret. 
New Eeveelutions
Of course, in a setting that centers so much around Eevee and its unique ability to evolve into so many different Pokémon Types, it’s an obvious next step to expand Eevee’s possible evolutions to span all of the known Types. This doesn’t necessarily mean you should make an Eeveelution available for every single Type in your campaign, but they can be sprinkled in for extra flavor. 
Perhaps Devon Corporation is currently working on a new breed of Eevee that can evolve to even more 
Types than before. This can be a plot point as the players investigate this project and steal its secrets as runners, further the project and try to create Evolution Stones for different Types as researchers, or are sur -
prised by the appearance of an unusual Eeveelution during a Pokémon League tournament. 
Below are stats for Eeveelutions for the remaining types and a template for how to read those stats. 
Name (Type) 
HP / ATK / DEF / SP .ATK / SP .DEF / SPEEDBasic Abilities / Advanced Abilities / High Ability Level-Up Move ListCapabilitiesSkills
Automateon (Steel)
HP 10 / ATK 7 / DEF 13 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 11 / SPEED 6Sturdy, Clear Body / Magnet Pull, Vigor / HeatproofSand-Attack 5, Bullet Punch 9, Quick Attack 13, Magnet Bomb 17, Flash Cannon 21, Iron Head 25, Iron Defense 29, Metal Sound 33, Shift Gear 37, Last Resort 41, Metal Burst 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Jump 1/1, Power 5, Intelligence 4, Tracker, Magnetic
Skills : Athl 4d6+2, Acro 3d6+1, Combat 3d6+2, Stealth 4d6+2, Percep 3d6+2, Focus 5d6+2Eevee pun time? Eevee pun time! If you breed an Eevee with a Kecleon, do you get a Chameleon? If your Eevee can’t find a job, is it because of the Recesseon? If your Eevee becomes a chef, is it a Luncheon? If you teach your Eevee Frustration, 
does it become a Curmudgeon? If you teach your Eevee to sing, does it become Celine De- okay I’ll stop. More seriously, I hope you enjoy the punny names, but do feel free to change them.
artist unknown. I tried. Really!
113
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Aviateon (Flying)
HP 10 / ATK 6 / DEF 7 / SP .ATK 11 / SP .DEF 7 / SPEED 13Cloud Nine, Serene Grace / Windveiled, Blow Away / ConfidenceSand-Attack 5, Gust 9, Quick Attack 13, Air Cutter 17, Mirror Move 21, Tail-wind 25, Roost 29, Whirlwind 33, Air Slash 37, Last Resort 41, Hurricane 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Sky 7, Jump 2/2, Power 4, Intelligence 4, 
Tracker, GusterSkills : Athl 4d6, Acro 5d6+2, Combat 3d6+1, Stealth 3d6+1, Percep 4d6+2, 
Focus 3d6+1
Champeon (Fighting) HP 11 / ATK 13 / DEF 10 / SP .ATK 6 / SP .DEF 7 / SPEED 7Inner Focus,  Limber / Defiant, Reckless / No GuardSand-Attack 5, Double Kick 9, Quick Attack 13, Bite 17, Jump Kick 21, Detect 25, Revenge 29, Reversal 33, Counter 37, Last Resort 41, Hi Jump Kick 45Capabilities : Overland 7, Swim 4, Jump 2/3, Power 5, Intelligence 4, Tracker
Skills : Athl 5d6+2, Acro 4d6+2, Combat 4d6+2, Stealth 3d6, Percep 3d6, 
Focus 3d6+2
Companeon (Normal)HP 13 / ATK 7 / DEF 10 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 11 / SPEED 6Bodyguard, Friend Guard / Adaptability, Anticipation / CourageSand-Attack 5, Growl 9, Quick Attack 13, Bite 17, Baton Pass 21, Take Down 25, Rest 29, Trump Card 33, Copycat 37, Last Resort 41, Giga Impact 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Jump 1/2, Power 4, Intelligence 4, Tracker
Skills : Athl 4d6+2, Acro 4d6, Combat 3d6+1, Stealth 3d6+2, Percep 4d6, Focus 4d6
Corroseon (Poison)HP 10 / ATK 6 / DEF 7 / SP .ATK 13 / SP .DEF 7 / SPEED 11White Smoke, Liquid Ooze / Poison Touch, Poison Point / StenchSand-Attack 5, Smog 9, Quick Attack 13, Sludge 17, Acid Spray 21, Haze 25, Venoshock 29, Toxic Spikes 33, Gastro Acid 37, Last Resort 41, Sludge Wave 45Capabilities : Oveland 6, Swim 3, Jump 1/2, Power 4, Intelligence 4, Tracker, 
AmorphousSkills : Athl 3d6, Acro 3d6+1, Combat 3d6+1, Stealth 5d6+2, Percep 4d6+2, 
Focus 4d6+2
artist unknown
artist unknown
artist unknown
artist unknown
114
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Draconeon (Dragon)
HP 10 / ATK 11 / DEF 7 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 6 / SPEED 13Steadfast, Vital Spirit / Moxie, Mold Breaker / Sheer Force Sand-Attack 5, Dual Chop 9, Quick Attack 13, Dragon Tail 17, Dragonbreath 21, Dragon Claw 25, Dragon Dance 29, Dragon Rage 33, Dragon Rush 37, Last Resort 41, Outrage 45Capabilities : Overland 8, Swim 4, Sky 4, Jump 1/2, Power 5, Intelligence 4, 
TrackerSkills : Athl 5d6+2, Acro 4d6, Combat 4d6, Stealth 3d6+1, Percep 3d6+2, 
Focus 3d6+2
Dungeon (Ground)HP 11 / ATK 10 / DEF 13 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 6 / SPEED 7Sand Veil, Sand Rush / Arena Trap, Dig Away / Sand StreamSand-Attack 5, Mud-Slap 9, Quick Attack 13, Bite 17, Bulldoze 21, Dig 25, Spikes 29, Sand Tomb 33, Earthquake 37, Last Resort 41, Fissure 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Burrow 5, Jump 1/2, Power 4, Intelligence 
4, Tracker, GroundshaperSkills : Athl 4d6+2, Acro 3d6+1, Combat 3d6+1, Stealth 4d6+2, Percep 4d6, 
Focus 4d6
Illuseon (Ghost)HP 6 / ATK 13 / DEF 10 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 7 / SPEED 11Intimidate, Omen / Pressure, Cursed Body / MojoSand-Attack 5, Shadow Sneak 9, Quick Attack 13, Bite 17, Shadow Claw 21, Hypnosis 25, Destiny Bond 29, Will-o-Wisp 33, Night Shade 37, Last Resort 41, Perish Song 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Jump 1/2, Power 4, Intelligence 4, Tracker, 
Invisibility, PhasingSkills : Athl 3d6+1, Acro 4d6, Combat 3d6+1, Stealth 5d6+2, Percep 4d6+2, 
Focus 3d6+2
Obsideon (Rock)HP 7 / ATK 10 / DEF 11 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 13 / SPEED 6Battle Armor, Quick Curl / Rock Head, Sturdy / Rough SkinSand-Attack 5, Rock Throw 9, Quick Attack 13, Defense Curl 17, Rollout 21, Smack Down 25,  Stealth Rocks 29, Rock Slide 33, Wide Guard 37, Last Resort 41, Head Smash 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Jump 1/1, Power 5, Intelligence 4, Tracker, 
MaterializerSkills : Athl 5d6+2, Acro 3d6+1, Combat 4d6+2, Stealth 3d6+1, Percep 3d6+1, 
Focus 4d6
artist unknown
artist unknown
art by Chigaya Kibasaki at 
http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1270098
artist unknown
115
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Scorpeon (Bug)
HP 11 / ATK 10 / DEF 6 / SP .ATK 7 / SP .DEF 13 / SPEED 7Sniper, Technician / Unnerve, Frighten / Pack HuntSand-Attack 5, Leech Life 9, Quick Attack 13, Bug Bite 17, Pin Missile 21, Steamroller 25, U-Turn 29, Spider Web 33, Heal Order 37, Last Resort 41, Attack Order 45Capabilities : Overland 6, Swim 3, Burrow 2, Jump 1/2, Power 4, Intelligence 
4, Tracker, Threaded 
                 Skills : Athl 4d6+2, Acro 4d6, Combat 3d6+1, Stealth 4d6+2, Percep 4d6+2,  
                Focus 4d6
Building Trainers and Campaigns for Babel
It is recommended that no Supernatural Classes are used in a Babel campaign, except perhaps for the Ninja. Themes of human augmentation and using biotechnology to surpass human limits have much less oompth behind them if some Trainers naturally have fancy Aura powers or can spew flame from their mouthes. At the most, it could be an interesting plot point to have a player character or two be a result of Galactic En-terprises’s rumored experiments with splicing Pokémon genes into humans, resulting in Warpers and other Psychics. With Engineer and Upgrader Researcher Fields available as additional options to the core pdf ’s Base Classes, there should be ample variety to support a standard sized party of 3-5 Trainers. 
If these guidelines are too restrictive, or players insist on playing a Supernatural Class, then it’s suggested 
that they at least be fluffed as genetic experiments or as using new advanced cybernetic augmentations. Y ou may even choose to charge a player Augmentation Capacity to take a Supernatural Class in this way. 
As for creating the basic premise for a campaign, there are a multitude of organizations the players could be 
affiliated with. They may simply be aspiring League competitors vying for a spot in the Elite 4 and Champi-on. They could be employed as Runners to conduct corporate espionage for any of the big three megacorps or even for an up and coming competitor trying to edge out a spot for itself in the market. They could also be employed more overtly by these corporations, as security staff or as researchers. They could be Rangers, balancing the need for coverage on Guardian Signs with their private lives and goals as Pokémon Trainers. They could be part of a task force employed by The Heizhou Public Security Task Force to investigate and attempt to keep in check the megacorps of the city or to deal with crimes that private security forces can’t be bothered to t ouch. 
As previously noted, it’s a good idea to structure a Babel campaign so player characters can easily take a few days or weeks of downtime at a time for tasks such as letting their Pokémon grow enough to mature to their next evolutionary stage or to get the gene therapy for a TM done. An episodic, mission-based structure for 
the campaign helps out here and works especially well for players acting as Runners or as part of a security 
force. Most days as a security guard are in fact dull and not full of action and bloodshed after all. 
However, setting this as the norm also gives you great leeway to up the tension by revoking the right to rest 
and relaxation. The players could be faced with a choice to spend their precious little money on new gear 
or making sure their injured Pokémon are treated at a center in the few hours they have before they need to 
leave on another mission. Would they rather go out under-equipped or with injured Pokémon? 
art by Chigaya Kibasaki at 
http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1270098
116
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Plot Hooks and Encounter Ideas
Here are some ideas to get you started on your very own Babel campaign! It’s relatively easy to put together 
a ‘traditional’ cyberpunk game based on B&E and stealing corporate secrets for a mercenary’s pittance, so the campaign hooks here are meant to explore a wider range of adventures possible in the Babel setting.
Campaign Hooks
The NewcomerThe players create characters who are part of the media team covering the newest addition to the Guardian Signs line-up for this season, a Galactic-sponsored Trainer named Marziale Cremaschi. The man displays an intuitive connection with his Pokémon rarely seen among even the most skilled Trainers, and he has an incredible awareness of the battlefield even while issuing orders to multiple Pokémon at a time. Even in the 
most chaotic battles, he seems to be in the right place at the right time to avoid deadly attacks and make 
crippling strikes against his foes. 
The hype continues to build up among fans of the Rangers, and the players find pressure mounting to milk 
this new phenomena for all it’s worth. Even when Marziale isn’t out fighting crime, the players are pushed into writing blog posts and other social media, putting together televised exposés on the man and his Pokémon team, and arranging interviews. Gradually, they become experts on him and small celebrities in their own right. And then the unthinkable happens. 
One day during a heated battle against criminals in the city, a ripple of energy bursts forth from Marziale 
and covers the city block. Everyone exposed, civilian, criminal, and Pokémon alike, at best suffers severe mental trauma and memory loss and at worst is reduced to a vegetative state. Marziale disappears in the af-termath and hasn’t been seen since. The players, safe in their reporting helicopter, were the closest witnesses to the catastrophe and are now pushed into a maelstrom of intrigue and mystery.
The Schism
Not all is rainbows and sunshine in the world of the Pokémon League. As all three of the major corpora-tions in Heizhou bring out their new products for enhanced Pokémon battling, a clear winner emerges and begins to dominate the market. While Evolution Stones apply to only a small subset of Pokémon and cybernetic augmentations require invasive surgery that many Trainers aren’t comfortable subjecting their Pokémon to, the TM technology that Silph Co. has introduced provides a safe, versatile, and less visibly unnatural way of boosting a Pokémon’s battle capability. Most importantly, however, every single Pokémon can take advantage of TMs.
Faced with slipping profits and seeing their market share threatened, Galactic Enterprises and Devon 
Corporation begin to make moves to restrict or ban the use of TMs in the Pokémon League. Neither side is 
willing to budge, and eventually Silph Co. withdraws from the Heizhou League to found its own Pokémon 
League where TMs are allowed. 
This scenario is designed for a high level campaign where the players take on the role of League Admins or 
other high ranking members of the Pokémon League that are now faced with the dilemma of where to lay 
their allegiances. On the one hand, Galactic Enterprises and Devon Corporation together represent much 
more overall wealth and power than Silph Co. alone, but Silph’s custom TMs gave League Admins a huge boost in recognition, and most Pokémon Trainers in Heizhou rely on the Safari Zone for hunting Pokémon. 
117
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
In a reversal from typical cyberpunk campaigns, players will likely end up hiring Runners to do their dirty 
work and keep their hands clean while they handle official League business and maneuver the political pitfalls that now present themselves around every corner. They can expect their opposition to play ball with the same tactics, hiring Runners to sabotage them or steal their Pokémon.
For the Sake of Mankind?
An anti-transhumanist group calling themselves the Lux Aeterna has begun a campaign to tear down the city of Heizhou piece by piece. Attacks on gene therapy clinics, assassinations of prominent researchers, and even raids of Pokémon League offices have become frighteningly commonplace. The players take on the role of investigators, possibly hired by one of the three megacorps, working for the city’s Public Security Task 
Force, or even acting as independent bloggers reporting on the incidents for page views and online fame.
The investigation becomes muddled when the players piece together some curious facts about the terrorist 
attacks. Devon Corporation never suffers attacks on its most valuable assets. New and popular Evolution 
Stone clinics remain untouched in favor of bombings on older or less visited clinics, but many TM clinics 
and augmentation shops are hit within a week of opening day. Furthermore, irregularities in the AR system 
have impeded investigations of attacks on Silph and Galactic holdings in an unusually high frequency. 
Could Lux Aeterna be all a ruse by Devon to take down its rivals without blame, or is that only part of the 
organization’s motivations or a temporary arrangement between the corporation and terrorist group? 
Encounter and Session Ideas
•	The players receive a contract to hunt down an enhanced experimental Pokémon that has escaped cap-
tivity in corporate labs. However, the contract is really a test run for the creature, deliberately set up to 
test its capabilities and collect combat data. What the players do with this information if they discover it is up to them, but they have to survive the fight first. 
•	A string of cybercrimes and crimes involving robots is sweeping the city, and investigations have turned up nothing more than a trail of hacked consoles, compromised AR systems, and Pokébots with wiped 
data banks. Is this the work of a skilled human hacker, or is it a Porygon or Rotom gone rogue? 
•	Devon Corporation is holding a special team battle arena tournament. Their researchers have claimed 
to invent a method to apply normally incompatible Evolution Stones to any species capable of evolving 
by stone. Ever wanted to use a Water Stone on a Cottonee or a Dusk Stone on a Kirlia? Now you can, but 
only if your team can beat out the competition.
•	Silph Co. announces a unique Safari Zone capture competition opportunity. They’ve brought in a rare trio of Moltres, Zapdos, and Articuno and hidden the three birds throughout the Safari Zone for Train-ers to track and capture. Better hurry though. They’re only being kept in the Zone for one day, and they’ll probably be found by other Trainers long before then anyway. 
•	Galactic Enterprises is holding a demonstration of their new security guard Pokébot models when a 
hacker strikes and remotely takes control of the new robots. The audience is trapped in the factory or 
demonstration hall and must work together to evade the bots and escape with their lives. 
•	A backstage gaffe reveals to the players that a popular pop idol is actually an incredibly life-like human-
oid robot with a permanently installed Rotom or Porygon acting as its digital brain. After the revelation, 
it pleads with them to help it escape. 
•	Dittos from all over the city have been reported missing or kidnapped. An investigation soon reveals they may have been taken for experimental purposes, and the follow-up could lead the players to labs 
trying to replicate an ancient Pokémon said to be the genetic progenitor of all other Pokémon.
118
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Creative Destruction
art by TryingtoFly at http://tryingtofly.deviantart.com/
Creative Destruction Campaign Setting
Genre : Transhuman Sci-Fi, Soft Sci-Fi, Sci-Fi Horror
Features: Archeology, Mystery, Technological Rediscovery, Last Bastion of Civilization
Technology: Transhuman Age Tech Level, Cybernetic Augmentations, Augmented Reality, Mind UploadsRecommended Soundtrack: 2001: A Space Odyssey OST, Ergo Proxy OST, BT - This Binary UniverseRecommended Trainer Class Additions: Engineer, Jailbreaker (limited), Upgrader (limited), Glitch BenderImportant Rules and Concepts: Cyberworld Hacking , Glitch Pokémon, Augmented RealityWelcome to Aniseed, your home away from home. Whether you are here for permanent residence or for temporary psychological convalescence, Aniseed provides a safe pre-transhuman environment and community tailored to your needs. While Aniseed employs a limited number 
of infomorphs and androids to perform maintenance duties, 100% of your interaction with therapists, researchers, and the community will be conducted in real space with flesh and blood human bodies.
Aniseed sacrifices none of the essential conveniences of modern life and offers a variety of meals 
representing cuisines of dozens of historical civilizations. Our Cornucopia Machines are programmed with blueprints and recipes for only the basic needs of life, so you can enjoy your stay without worrying about material scarcity while still avoiding psychologically distressing technologies.
Y ou won’t find memory excision machines here at Aniseed. Our rehabilitation methods emphasize human 
interaction and exposure to positive experiences over destructive treatments that may alter one’s personality or even cause further mental trauma. 
— excerpt from Aniseed City welcome message, unknown amount of time before The Sundering
119
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
art by TryingtoFly at http://tryingtofly.deviantart.com/Technology and Setting Basics
Creative Destruction is a far future sci-fi campaign setting that set in the remnants of Aniseed, a 
subterranean community that sought escape from the hectic lifestyle of transhumanity. It is a campaign setting designed around the rediscovery of technology and reclaiming civilization. In the timeline of Creative Destruction, the future came just as all the optimists predicted. Computing advances followed Moore’s Law to the letter, allowing humanity’s technological prowess to grow at an exponential rate. 
The first mass-produced A.I., the Porygon, were clever Pokémon, capable and clever but a clear mark below 
human intelligence. Within a few years, that would change. 
Newer Porygon models out-thought humans by increasingly 
wider margins. Eventually, human scientists simply gave up and left them to run their research projects. New biological life was also invented, and the first successfully manufac-tured Reuniclus was met with celebrations around the world. 
Concurrent with these developments, humans advanced 
themselves, augmenting themselves with wetware and up-loading their minds to computers – blurring the lines be-tween human and machine. Human scientists could compete once more with A.I. researchers, and many citizens of the time considered humanity to be entering a new Golden Age.
Not everyone shared this sentiment, and that is why Aniseed 
came to exist in the first place. Many people saw the future rushing at them and cowered from it. For them, transhu-man society meant much more than simply a steady march toward a better future for all – for them, it was a civilization that had descended into debauchery.
Free from material need, humans began seeking increas-
ingly bizarre lives to combat their growing ennui. Mind upload technology encouraged unconventional lifestyles – humans living in artificial Pokémon or robot bodies, children raised in multiple virtual childhoods from which the parents then chose their perfect kid, collective minds guided by Alakazams or other intelligent Pokémon. In fact, most currently existent Pokémon species are the result of whimsical experimentation, with the results out-competing natural spe-cies. How else would oddities like Koffing and Trubbish come to be? Eventually, an enterprising individual established Aniseed, a sanctuary for those unable or unwilling to cope with with the fast-paced, rapidly evolving lifestyles of transhuman society.
Living under an artificial sky in a city deep within a hollowed out mountain, the citizens and temporary res-
idents of Aniseed still enjoyed some modern conveniences such as Cornucopia Machines which provided the basic necessities of life using nano-manufacturing. However, they could choose to work and to associate with like-minded individuals who also chose to escape transhumanity, living human lives in human bodies. 
It was a perfect arrangement. Only the researchers and managers of Aniseed ever had to connect themselves 
art by bou nin at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=211515
120
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
to society at large, and people on both sides of the transhumanity debate could live as they wished.
But then something went terribly wrong. No one can quite tell what happened, just that Aniseed lost con-tact with the rest of the world in an instant, and the few bits of higher technology allowed in the city failed catastrophically. Aniseed’s researchers who were heavily reliant on intelligence augmentation technology or tapping into complex neural networks had their minds fried or at least suffered heavy memory loss and 
dissociative mental disorders. With critical systems failing all over the city and incursions by wild Pokémon threatening a vulnerable population, human-
ity ceded most of Aniseed to 
the unknown and retreated to 
the city’s core. As far as anyone 
inside knew, it was the last bas-
tion of human civilization.
Slowly, other survivors began 
to trickle into the city. News 
from the outside was bleak. Ev-
erywhere that survivors came from, the same catastrophic 
failures had struck their com-
puter networks, A.I. systems, 
and mind upload data banks. Millions or billions of lives, many of them existing only in cyberspace, were certainly lost in the cataclysmic event. Of the survivors, most were minimally enhanced by transhuman technologies. The trend seems to have been that the more sophisticated the technology, the harder it 
crashed. High-level A.I., quantum computing systems, and other highly complex technologies failed in a 
way where even a cursory glance revealed the damage to be irreparable, whereas simpler digital archives, 
remained recoverable, even if filled with glitches and data corruption. 
Engineers in Aniseed quickly set about repairing technologies that were once considered taboo in the city, 
such as full-immersion virtual worlds and mind upload technology. The latter hasn’t quite been recovered 
yet, but the former has become a cornerstone of the city’s ability to recover other technologies. The necessity 
of preserving human knowledge and technologies that would allow reclaiming the rest of the city overrode 
Aniseed’s original raison d’ être. Most people went along. After all, it didn’t look like the type of transhuman lifestyle they abhorred would be coming back in full force any time soon, even with the recovery efforts. 
With dangerous wild Pokémon knocking at the front door, Aniseed’s denizens have scurried to recover 
weapons and Poké Ball technology. However, current efforts have only led to the recovery of caches of Poké 
Balls; their manufacture is still beyond the capabilities of the city and will require more complex Cornuco-
pia Machines than are available now. 
Basic needs are well met in recovering Aniseed. The augmented reality network of the city has been revi-
talized, and even those in the city who came to Aniseed for refuge rely upon it for everyday tasks as well 
as emergency alerts such as warnings of Pokémon incursions into the city. Medical technology allows easy 
treatment of most wounds but fails to achieve the complex bioengineering that was once commonplace.
art by Hebitsukai at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=935581
121
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Life in Aniseed
The vast majority of Aniseed’s current denizens came to the city before the Sundering, though only about 
a fourth of those had planned on a long term stay. Many of these people enjoy simple lives with their Pokémon and don’t go out of their way to accost others, but a rare few are more militant about their views. 
Of those who had planned extended or even permanent residence in Aniseed, most faced identity crisis 
issues. A multitude of transhuman technologies allowed humans to live in ways to defied traditional ideas regarding personal identity that many found impossible to come to grips with. Mind upload technology allowed people to be “restored from backup” when they died or to give up their physical bodies and live on indefinitely in a virtual world, but this gave some people significant unease due to the fact that copies restored from backup were just that, copies. They would have your memories and personality, but they don’t change that you have already died. Society didn’t need any part of the individual that wasn’t infinitely repro-ducible due to the wonders of technology. 
This technology grew beyond simple backup as well. People began to make “forks” , copies of someone’s 
mind temporarily created for a certain task before a planned reintegration with the original mind. The experience of having memories of being in literally two places at the same time was too much for some, par -
ticularly those who remember multiple virtual childhoods and have had to cope with holding all the con-flicting memories at once. Needless to say, identity disorders are the most common form of mental disorder treated in Aniseed’s Dawnstone Sanatorium. 
Even today, the Sanatorium holds considerable sway in Aniseed’s administration, and many of the top 
researchers who studied treatments for transhuman mental disorders now play a double role in either the Athenaeum, an organization dedicated to recovering the past and exploring past the city limits, or the Ani-seed City Administration, the city’s council-based governmental body. 
Of those who came to Aniseed after the Sundering, most have been admitted into the Sanatorium them-
selves or at least been put into therapy programs for the mental trauma they suffered. Everyone who came in as a straggling survivor is “incomplete” in some way. Memories kept in external storage were lost, intelli-gence implants backfired in horrifying ways, and some were even forks that never found reintegration and now possess programmed inclinations and access only to a portion of their original’s memory. 
Despite these hardships, life remains relatively comfortable in the habitable core of Aniseed. Basic neces-
sities are met, and the borders are kept safe by City Reclamation Officers from the Athenaeum or simple law enforcement. The small size of the community, perhaps a few thousand at the most, and the advanced technologies still available to the city make crime difficult. 
Medical technology has all but eliminated death by natural causes. Even heart disease and cancer are un-
heard of, though the city has a ways to go before their age treatment technology is fully operational again. Outsiders to Aniseed may still find all this primitive compared to the lifestyle they used to enjoy in transhu-man society, but new rediscoveries and repaired technologies pop up nearly every day now. 
122
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Poké Ball Technology 
Poké Balls and most other Pokémon-related technology constitute what the current denizens of Aniseed call “black box technology” . Even in the pre-Sundering days, most humans did not understand how Poké Ball technology functioned. Though anyone with the proper training could operate a Poké Ball building machine, the inner workings of this strange technology and the nano-fabrication machines that built them were the sole providence of intellignce-enhanced humans and hyperintelligent artificial researchers like advanced Porygon Zs. 
Now, Aniseed lacks even the machines to fabricate Poké Balls or the know-how to operate them. It relies 
solely on scavenged Poké Balls until a means can be found for making them again. As such, Poké Balls are rationed carefully in Aniseed, and the players are among the few who will have access to them, though even they are watched to make sure they’re using the rare pieces of technology judiciously. 
As a result, it’s recommended that players do not start with the Jailbreaker class or any Features that involve 
the creation of Poké Balls. As they technology is rediscovered and repaired, these options should open up.
Pokémon Centers
Medical technology in the days before the Sundering was heavily reliant on nanotechnology, which could be used to perform precise and efficient repairs of nearly any damage to a person’s body. Now, that technology is unavailable, but luckily for Pokémon, recovering from injury is as simple as being recalled into a Poké Ball and then placed into a machine that directly repairs the energized form of a Pokémon. 
However, these machines are rare among the ruins of the city, and only a handful are in operation now. 
Furthermore, they are largely located on the vulnerable outskirts of the city core and are part of large facili-ties that cannot be moved. Should they fall into disrepair or be damaged, such as by wild Pokémon attacks, Aniseed’s residents have neither the technology nor understanding to repair them and only barely enough know-how to perform routine maintenance and keep them running. 
Technical Machines
TMs, like Poké Balls, are another enigma to Aniseed. Limited stocks of them exist in the city, but the means for manufacture and the understanding of their workings have been lost. As with the medical technology of Pokémon Centers, TMs only work on Pokémon kept in Poké Balls. A Poké Ball is placed in a TM case, which then executes a one time program that makes modifications to the Pokémon inside and teaches it how to use a new Move. Understandably, this process unnerves the more conservative members of Ani-seed’s community, though both the Athenaeum and city government adamantly insist that use of TMs is necessary for the sake of the city’s security from wild Pokémon. 
Cybernetic Augmentations
Few voluntary residents of Aniseed have much in the way of cyberware, and even outsiders to the city have at most simple Augmentations. Just as with Poké Balls, the city’s Cornucopia Machines are too basic to syn-thesize Augmentations, and new machines or upgrades will have to be found before that’s possible. If play-ers want to start with Augmentations, then their characters will have had them since before the Sundering.
As with Jailbreaker, it’s similarly recommended that no players take the Upgrader class until the technology 
for creating and installing Augmentations has been rediscovered and repaired. Y ou may choose to describe the effects and powers of some supernatural classes as cyberware. 
123
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Athenaeum
This organization sits at the center of life in Aniseed and is the core of a Creative Destruction campaign. Its 
primary function is archeology, but this isn’t simple and sterile academic archeology, nor is it quite like the Indiana Jones style of high action archeology, though it shares similarities.
In the transhuman civilization of Creative Destruction, data banks were largely composed of virtual worlds 
that one would browse much like a real library. These data banks are the primary raison d’ être of the Athe-naeum, and its members both seek to recover the physical servers and data banks from the ruins of the city and outside and to dive in the virtual worlds contained within to recover forgotten knowledge. In addition to recovery old technologies, the Athenaeum takes a primary role in reclaiming parts of Aniseed that have been overrun by glitch phenomena or wild Pokémon, and it is the center of research for any and all anoma-lies that may give a suggestion to what exactly the Sundering was.
As a concession to necessity, the Sanatorium and the psychology labs of Aniseed have ceded a research facil-
ity deep within the underground walls of Aniseed for the Athenaeum’s use, where it is protected from wild Pokémon attacks – and where the rest of the city is protected by the oddities and dangerous anomalies kept secret and secure within the Athenaeum’s labs for study.
An imposing sign in the entrance hall mockingly quotes the mantra: “ Any sufficiently advanced technology 
is indistinguishable from magic. ” It is unclear whether the original intent was to reassure operatives that the bizarre objects they found and events they observed could one day be understood – or whether it was 
a cynical jab at the absurdity of their jobs. After all, some oper -
atives have even reported sight-ings of Pokémon long thought to have been mere myths from thousands of years back. The existence of so-called “legendary Pokémon” is not officially rec-ognized by the city of Aniseed nor even by the Athenaeum, yet the organization still quietly organizes investigations into the lore and myths, especially when faced with artifacts and phe-nomena beyond their scientific understanding.
Either way, the public regards 
the Athenaeum and its tendency toward secrecy with nervous and quiet respect, allowing it to operate in hopes that it will help keep the city safe.
art by derbz at http://derbz.deviantart.com/
124
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Organization of the Athenaeum
Operatives of the Athenaeum work in small groups called Pods, and it is recommended that the players of 
a Creative Destruction campaign be members of a newly formed Pod. Each member of a Pod takes on an officially recognized role within the Athenaeum, chosen from seven. Not every Pod will have a representa-tive of each role, and roles may be repeated. After all, individual Pods have their ways of working and their specialties within the organization. 
Choosing a character’s role is important in a Creative Destruction campaign because it determines not only 
what they do in the game world but gives them perks at character creation as well as offering general bene-fits to their entire Pod. 
Athenaeum Advocacy Advisor 
These are essentially the PR specialists in a Pod and have the job of presenting a Pod’s findings to the Ath-enaeum as a whole, or to the city if the discoveries are notable enough. On the flip side, when something goes wrong, it’s also this person’s job to play clean-up and control the fallout. As a secretive organization, the Athenaeum is heavily reliant upon those in this role to keep up its public image.
Examples: A Chronicler who prepares well-designed presentations for their pod’s findings, a Telepath 
whose powers are described to come from cybernetic augmentations that analyze body language and other quirks to reveal a person’s state of mind, a Musician and Coordinator who acts as a public figure and friend-ly face for the Athenaeum.
Benefits : Each Athenaeum Advocacy Advisor may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a bonus to their choice of 
Charm or Guile rolls when conducting PR and making a good first impression. In addition, they gain their 
choice of the Leader or Charmer Edges, even if they normally don’t qualify. Pods with Advocacy Advisors tend to be more well known and respected by the city’s population, and they’re often offered favors and ben-efits from the Aniseed City Administration or the Dawnstone Sanatorium. 
Data Miner 
This crucial role within the Athenaeum leads explorations into the virtual worlds contained in the data banks recovered by the organization. When not on missions outside the city core, they will likely make time for perusing the archives and making use of what knowledge they can pry out of the often encrypted, cor -
rupted, or outright incomprehensible data containers found on expeditions. 
Examples: An Engineering Researcher who specializes in advanced computer technology, a Rogue with 
a talent both for sneaking past wild Pokémon to retrieve data banks and for diving into the virtual worlds inside them, a Chronicler who has an insatiable thirst for knowledge about the past.
Benefits : Each Data Miner may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a bonus to their choice of Technology Edu-
cation rolls to make attacks during cyberworld hacking sequences or to start up and understand recovered 
computer technologies. In addition, they gain their choice of the Defensive Hacking or Pokébot Training Edges, even if they don’t qualify. Pods with Data Miners by necessity get first dibs on archives and old pieces of technology to analyze and experiment on. 
125
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
City Reclamation Officer 
This oddly named job is actually quite simple. Reclamation Officers secure parts of the outer city and areas even beyond that from wild Pokémon attack to expand the habitable regions of the city. This goes beyond simply fighting the Pokémon there; good Reclamation Officers also have a working knowledge of the city’s security systems and how to reactivate them, or at least create ad hoc secure zones in the city using salvaged parts. While the city has a dedicated law enforcement agency, Reclamation Officers may also occasionally be called in to help deal with internal affairs of law and order in the city. However, they do not do the grunt work of restoring infrastructure in the city. That is left to the Aniseed City Administration.
Examples: A Martial Artist who takes on wild Pokémon in combat directly, an Ace Trainer who maintains 
a powerful team to secure the city, a Chemistry Researcher with a medley of concoctions for battle and a strong working knowledge of the traps and security systems of Aniseed.
Benefits : Each Reclamation Officer may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a bonus to their choice of Technol-
ogy Education rolls to operate security systems or Survival rolls to track wild Pokémon. In addition, they 
gain their choice of the Repel Crafter or Basic Martial Arts Edges, even if they don’t qualify. Pods with City Reclamation Officers tend to receive more provisions, such as Potions and Poké Balls. 
Mythbuster 
Officially a Mythbuster discovers scientific explanations for the glitch phenomena and other anomalies around the city, though they are often called to invent cover-up explanations when sensitive information might come to light and threaten the Athenaeum’s interests. More than anyone else, they’re involved in keeping the secrets the Athenaeum would rather the public not know about to prevent panic and unease. Trainers who play this role are meant to be specialists in various supernatural fields, such as psionics, glitch phenomena, and of course, the myths behind legendary Pokémon. 
Examples: An Oracle who hones their ability to track down supernatural activity, a Glitch Bender who’s 
been thrust into the position of exploring the origins of their own strange abilities, an Aura Guardian whose strange gift offers them insight into the near-magical phenomena at the city’s outskirts, a Hex Maniac or Sage who’s developed skills in fighting or warding against the strange phenomenon their Pod runs into.
Benefits : Each Mythbuster may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a bonus to their choice of Occult rolls to 
learn about legendary Pokémon or to analyze psychic phenomena. They also gain their choice of the Iron 
Mind or Instinctive Aptitude Edges, even if they don’t qualify. Pods with Mythbusters tend to be privy to the less well-known secrets of the Athenaeum and are often afforded strange artifacts that defy science so that they may study them.
Operations Director 
A Pod rarely has the luxury of sitting back and dealing with the familiar. Faced with a dangerous twist in an exploratory trek, a strange mission that the party is ill-equipped for, or any other situation that demands fast and able leadership, an Operations Director must stand up to rally the Pod and act decisively. Operations Directors also have the job of conducting official meetings with higher-ups in the Athenaeum, although the entire Pod is usually present for these.
126
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Examples: The Cheerleader who acts as the face of the pod and shines as a beacon of authority to the whole 
city, the Coordinator whose experience with Pokémon contests gives them a glowing presence that makes them well suited to take command in times of emergency, the Commander whose quick thinking and pro-pensity for multitasking makes them perfectly suited to make strategic decisions during a mission.
Benefits : Each Operations Director may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a +2 bonus to their choice of Per -
ception rolls for sensing imminent danger or Command rolls for directing In addition, they gain their 
choice of the Leader or Confidence Artist Edges, even if they don’t qualify. Pods with Operations Directors can often call in favors to have themselves reassigned to different missions and may have other Pods that they give direct orders to as well.
Wired Quartermaster 
These are the gear heads of the group, keeping everyone well-equipped and well-supplied for their missions. They come in all varieties, and not every Quartermaster specializes in the same brand of equipment, rang-ing from weaponry to energized food to chemical concoctions. When old technology is restored, Quarter -
masters often work together with Data Miners to find pragmatic ways to put it to use.
Examples: The Apothecary Researcher who keeps everyone on their feet with their medical supplies, the 
Upgrader (later on in a campaign) who creates wetware for their allies, the Crystal Artifice Researcher who assembles strange but potent combat enhancers from the remnants of old technology, the Chef who pre-pares adrenaline boosters and other quick-fix drugs for missions that go longer than anticipated.
Benefits : Each Wired Quartermaster may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a bonus to their choice of Tech-
nology Education for analyzing and replicating high-tech weaponry or to Combat rolls for their choice of a 
Combat Maneuver. In addition, they gain their choice of the Medic Training or Basic Cooking Edges, even if they don’t qualify. Pods with Wired Quartermasters obviously gain more weapons, armor, and other com-bat equipment than other Pods, all else being equal.
Xenobiologist 
This job goes beyond simple Pokémon biology and ventures into the realm of Glitch Pokémon, the results of esoteric experimentation, and anything else beyond the ordinary as far as Pokémon go. There is some degree of overlap between this role and the Mythbuster, but while Mythbusters focus on understanding phenomena, Xenobiologists have the job of capturing and restraining test subjects such as wild Pokémon so they can be studied.
Examples: A Capture Specialist who deftly captures strange and new Pokémon discovered in the city 
outskirts, a Hatcher who tames wild Pokémon to use as breeding stock for their research projects and city defense, a Channeler who uses their supernatural power of empathy to calm down dangerous test subjects.
Benefits : Each Xenobiologist may take a free Skill Stunt Edge for a bonus to their choice of Pokémon Edu-
cation for identifying the characteristics of weird and unnatural Pokémon at a glance or Medicine Educa-
tion for conducting extended biological tests and experiments on strange Pokémon. In addition, they gain their choice of the Breeder or PokéManiac Edges, even if they don’t qualify. Pods with Xenobiologists often reap the benefits of research on anomalous Pokémon first and often gain priority access to recovered TMs and other Pokémon customization tools for testing purposes. 
127
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Key Locales
The city of Aniseed is filled to the brim with odd 
locations, overrun with Pokémon and touched by glitch phenomena and other anomalies. As the players venture out of the city core into the rest of the city or even beyond that out of Aniseed, they’re sure to discover plenty of places to explore.
The Glitching Grounds
This is a catch-all name given to vast expanses and zones of the city that have been well marked by City Reclamation Officers, even if the actual zones remain overrun by Pokémon. 
Within these zones, Poké Ball technology malfunc-
tions in an incomprehensible way, causing the data stored within to become corrupt. In game terms, any Pokémon kept inside their balls in these areas start to develop Glitch Affliction. This affliction worsens the longer they’re kept inside their Poké Balls or the more often they visit. Pokémon kept outside of their balls remain unaffected by the phenome-non, and Athenaeum operatives are warned well in advance if their missions take them near these zones so they can release their Pokémon from their balls while exploring them. 
In addition to malfunctioning Poké Balls, other instances of technological breakdown are common here. 
Operatives often report strange AR glitches, difficulty using cyberware, and heavy interference when using communications technologies in these areas. Diving into virtual worlds is a dangerous proposition in these zones, and those who attempt it recklessly often find themselves driven to insanity by the corrosive effects on technology in the area. 
So far, the Athenaeum has been unsuccessful in determining just what it is that causes technology to mal-
function in the Glitching Grounds, though it’s almost certainly something related to the Sundering and could possibly offer an explanation as to what happened. 
Of course, such a place cannot possibly be safe. In fact, deep within the Glitching Grounds was a Pokémon 
storage facility that kept thousands of Pokémon in shelves upon shelves of Poké Balls for Trainers to retrieve later. While most of these Pokémon died from Glitch Affliction long ago, some of the Poké Balls broke in a manner during the corruption process such that the Pokémon was able to escape. Now, dangerous Glitch Pokémon with strange and dangerous abilities wander the Glitching Grounds, requiring all who enter to keep sharp and expect the unexpected. 
Despite the dangers, the Athenaeum has a vested interest in continuing to investigate these locations. Any 
data containers recovered in them are, of course, useless, but they are a prime site for finding artifacts that defy the laws of physics. If nothing else, the Athenaeum wishes to recover these so no one unsavory does.
art by 子畑 at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=742673
128
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Digital Frontiers
Exploration in a Creative Destruction campaign doesn’t just happen in physical reality. Entire labyrinths filled with esoteric knowledge and exciting discoveries can be found in the small data containers that Ath-
enaeum operatives might recover while ruin diving. Thus, most Athenaeum operations have two parts, with the first being physical exploration, often led by an Operations Di-rector or City Reclamation Officer, followed up by a virtual adventure led by the Pod’s Data Miner or with an escort from another Pod in the Athenaeum. 
This is no walk in the park. Most of the data 
banks the Athenaeum would want to analyze are protected by strict encryption protocols that take the form of digital sentries like Porygon and other intrusion countermeasure electronics. Even worse, many of the data banks are corrupted, either due to physical damage of the storage medium or due to the effects of glitch phenomena in the city. This corruption can cause dangerous aberrations to appear in the virtual worlds of a data con-tainer. Though these may not physically harm someone, their damage to the psyche can be tremendous.
The payoff is well worth the risk, however. Data banks contain not only knowledge that can be used to recover old technologies, but they could contain entire virtual ecosystems filled with culture lost in the Sundering. These are likely populated by A.I. or people who have uploaded their minds into comput-ers and given up their physical bodies. Entire cities of these digital denizens could be found eventually.
Perhaps most importantly, digital exploration 
may offer the players their first opportunity to see the world outside of Aniseed, such as by controlling still-functioning security cameras in far off locations connected by the remains of the world’s Internet infrastructure.
art by Hebitsukai at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=935581
art by Hebitsukai at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=935581
129
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Aerial Metropolis
The city in the sky is a touchstone of science fiction and a mark of a technologically sophisticated civilization. This is no different in a Creative Destruction campaign, and one location you may wish to include in your game should the players make their way out of Aniseed is a flying city filled with technological wonders. 
Including such a stark contrast to Aniseed could be a 
great way to show off what it was people left behind 
when they came to the city seeking convalescence – or 
what was lost when humanity suffered the Sundering. A flying city, if it is able to keep airborne, would also be 
much less likely than other land-based locations to be 
overrun with Pokémon in humanity’s absence. 
Even more exciting would be if the players finally 
discovered another enclave of humanity that managed 
to survive the Sundering in a floating city. Y ou may 
also decide, if legendary Pokémon are going to feature 
prominently in the campaign, that they make their 
home in a city in the clouds, and they may have answers that could help the players understand what happened 
during the Sundering. 
Aside from that, a flying city could simply be a great resource for the players to recover technology such as 
flying motorcycles, anti-gravity technology, and other sci-fi wonders. If the campaign has gone on for a long time, it may even make sense for the players to establish their own branch of the Athenaeum in the newly 
discovered city in the sky, which would give a GM running out of space in Aniseed a blank slate with which 
to create places to explore. Y ou may even explore the idea of competition between the two branches. 
art by izumi sai at http://syakugan100.blog.fc2.com/
art by Tsukuba Masahiro at http://zenovia.sub.jp/
130
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Space Station Resort
Space is the final frontier, or so they say. In this case, space was a vacation spot for transhuman citizens seeking an escape from terrestrial ennui. And for the players this discovery could be the result of rebuilding 
a teleporter that brings them to a vacation resort in space. 
Given that all highly advanced technol-
ogies failed catastrophically during the Sundering, you might wonder how a space station might survive. It’s possible 
whatever happened in the Sundering was 
restricted to terrestrial phenomena. If this is the case, and if you decided that 
humanity had embarked on a project of 
space colonization prior to the Sundering, 
this could be a hook into a space explora-
tion arc or the end-point of a campaign. 
However, the other answer could be just 
as interesting. Perhaps they teleport onto 
the resort to find it devoid of human 
life. More hints of what happened in the Sundering might be found in space, or 
exploration of humanity’s colonies may 
only reveal empty husks and domes on 
the moon or wrecked space stations 
forming a ring of debris around the blue planet. Even if there’s no miraculous discovery to be found, a trip 
to space could provide a good change of pace for a Pod and allow their characters to relax, especially if they 
can recover entertainment technologies for high tech concerts or Pok émon Contests with special effects.
Building a Creative Destruction Campaign
As with the other sample settings, it is recommended to be careful about the inclusion of Supernatural 
Classes. Many of them can be redescribed as using cyberware and other advanced technologies to accom-plish their goals, but the theme of recovering those technologies is a bit blunted if everyone in the players’ Pod already has them. Some degree of supernatural presence, whether it be Telepaths or Glitch Benders, is expected, however, and the campaign does revolve around unexplainable phenomena. 
The basic premise and organization of a Creative Destruction campaign has already been described. The 
players are members of an exploratory Pod acting on behalf of the Athenaeum to explore the remnants of the city. Player characters for Creative Destruction should be experienced, starting off at no lower than level 5 or 6, perhaps even as high as 10. They should have at leasat two Pokémon, maybe more depending on the campaign. The Athenaeum selects its members from those who have already demonstrated great skill in defending the city or doing their own research and exploration, and it does not let its operatives wander outside the safety of the city core without ample Pokémon protection.
art by Haruno at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=4194
131
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Answers to the Mysteries
Rather than use the previous settings’ campaign hook format, it’s more useful here to talk about possibilities 
for the major questions of the campaign. What was the Sundering? Why did it happen? What does human civilization do now? What is glitch phenomena, and what does it have to do with legendary Pokémon, if anything at all? Here are some ideas for how to go about answering those. 
•	If you wish to take more of a mystical bent with the conclusions of Creative Destruction, you could say 
legendary Pokémon are the result of intelligent civilizations reaching a certain level of enlightenment. The collective consciousness of a civilization is coalesced in a rapture-like event into one entity with all the accumulated memories and thoughts of the whole race in one mind. Humanity didn’t suffer a crip-pling blow from the Sundering. It was part of humanity’s ascension into the Lake Guardian trio. Back in 
days when mysticism and religion were more powerful forces in the world, part of humanity ascended 
as Mesprit, representing the force of its emotion. During the Sundering, humanity’s knowledge and 
technological developments caused parts of it to ascend as Uxie, leaving the remnants to find the will-power to go on despite the devastation around them and become Azelf. 
•	A group of scientists gathered from around the world embarked on a project to “digitalize” space-time around the Earth, rendering it as malleable as any other data in a computer and essentially giving them root access to reality itself. Now the “program” they created is threatening to envelop the whole world, and the players need to find the origin of it and put a stop to it. 
•	The simplest explanation is just that MissingNo. did it. Y ou may decide it’s a new legendary Pokémon, or maybe it’s not a Pokémon at all and simply an interdimensional being or just a phenomenon. Either way, it has an affinity for wreaking havoc with data systems and did so with humanity’s highly interconnected network, leaving only Aniseed alone because of its isolation from the broader overall system. 
•	There’s actually a cosmic scale phenomenon which is causing all technology that relies on certain inter -
actions and principles or is of a certain level of sophistication to fail in an area encompassing large parts of the Earth. It might be that anything relying on quantum computing fails to work, for example. The cause could range from an alien civilization’s experiment gone wrong, a natural undiscovered charac-teristic of the universe, or even a supernatural phenomenon. Either way, it’s up to the players to rally the rest of humanity in an area where advanced technology still functions and create space craft to escape to another region of the galaxy. 
Encounter and Session Ideas•	While exploring the outskirts of the Glitching Grounds, the players’ Pod happens upon a Dream World Machine hooked up to a handful of intelligent Pokémon, such as Metagross or Alakazam. Luckily, the effect on the Pokémon has been slow thus far since it isn’t in the heart of the Glitching Grounds. How-ever, to release them from the machine, the players have to dive into the virtual world inside the Dream 
Machine and contend with all the hazards of the glitches within. 
•	The Glitching Grounds suddenly shift in shape and size, leaving some once inhabited portions of the 
city dangerously rife with glitch phenomena and making others safe to visit once more. The fluctuations keep repeating in a cyclical pattern, and the players have to investigate why. 
•	The players stumble upon the result of experiments with Delta Pokémon while conducting a routine 
sweep of the city outskirts. The twist is that something about the experiments made them immune to 
Poké Balls, and they’re all huge species like Steelix and Gyarados. Containing them will be no easy task.
•	A community of intelligent Pokémon has claimed a section of Aniseed with important infrastructure to 
recover. The players must try to win the city access to this area through diplomacy or force. 
132
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
One-Off Sci-Fi Locations
The following are four familiar locations from Pokémon canon reconceptualized with a sci-fi bent. This may 
totally change the purpose of the location, or it could merely tweak its origins. They’re meant to be locations that can be thrown into any campaign, even ones that aren’t in the sci-fi genre. They can be used as one-off mysteries, leaving the ancient civilizations or odd phenomena associated with them as enigmas, or they can be used to kickstart a story arc about technological discovery and the conflicts surrounding it. 
The Abyssal Ruins
These underwater ruins in Unova are filled with mysterious relic items and Type Plates but offer little more in the way of explanation for their existence or any implication for their discovery on the rest of society. This interpretation of the ruins takes more of a sci-fi spin on them, giving the ruins a new purpose and a greater significance to their discovery by the players. In addition, Arceus is given a treatment not as a creature of divinity but as a living library left over from an advanced ancient civilization. 
How Do the Players Find It? 
Y ou’ d be surprised how much of the deep ocean has been unexplored, even in modern times. It’s practically up there with space as far as new frontiers for humanity go. If the players have access to a submarine, they could detect a strange structure on the seabed with their sensor equipment. While out on the open ocean, the players could be drawn into an unnatural whirlpool and sucked into the facility. They might also discov-er islands with pods or elevators leading down underwater into the facility. 
Either way, when they find it, the Abyssal Ruins are a pyramidal structure made of a strange alloy, appearing 
as if it were a land-based structure buried under the sea by changes brought by the winds of time. Ap-proaching the ruins, the players will find the water grows warmer as they draw near. 
art by mayuuuuu at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=779070
133
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
What Do They Find Inside?
The first thing the players will notice as they enter the Abyssal Ruins is that they can breathe the water with-in. It’s a little uncomfortable to hold the water within their lungs, but it doesn’t seem to damage their lung tissue and apparently provides oxygen that can be taken in as if from air. 
The Abyssal Ruins are filled with long, winding hallways covered with inscrutable runes. As they float along, 
they may attempt to investigate the source of the heat in the water or its breathable properties. Electric Type Pokémon will be able to easily tell electric currents are flowing through the liquid, though mysteriously avoiding any of them and causing no harm even though the player characters are immersed in the fluid. Other equipment, clever observation, and other types of Pokémon can easily lead them to this conclusion. 
Eventually, with enough technical expertise brought to bear, they can discover that the entire complex is an 
ancient and highly advanced computer and digital library. The runes on the wall help define its functions, 
and both data and power are carried through the special water flowing through its corridors. 
At the core of the structure lies Arceus, an artificial organism that acts as the interface for the vast comput-
erized library. Information is accessed by thought alone, transcending the barriers of language. Scattered within the ruins are 18 Plates of varied color, covered with similar inscriptions to the walls. Bringing them 
into proximity to Arceus reveals their function as ancient data banks, with each Plate holding encyclopedic 
information about a Type of Pokémon and all its species known to the civilization that built the ruins.  
What Does This Mean For Civilization?
Breathable liquids have a variety of applications, ranging from improving the ease of underwater explora-
tion and diving to creating new space suits filled with the breathable water. Scientists will also discover over 
time that immersion in the liquid allows divers to completely avoid decompression sickness. 
As for the information found in Arceus’s data banks, it can be whatever you want, ranging from esoteric 
medical applications of Weezing gases to advanced Porygon blueprints to a means of deriving efficient pro-
pulsion in space from the Beldum line. There may even be information on how to contact the alien civili-
zation that created the ruins or instructions on how to access other dimensions such as Giratina’s Reverse 
World or the realms of Palkia and Dialga if you decide they are also constructs created by this civilization.. 
Where Do I Go From 
Here?
Well, of course, if there’s any chance to 
follow up on finding Giratina’s realm 
or other dimensions, players are likely 
to take it. The contents of the Type 
Plates may also simply offer them the 
solution to one of their long-standing 
problems, such as finding a medicine 
to cure someone’s illness, so long as 
they can find and capture the rare 
Pokémon whose parts are needed to 
synthesize the medication.
art by Tuooneo at http://tuooneo.deviantart.com/
134
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Chargestone Cave
Chargestone Cave is filled with some of the strangest Pokémon in Unova, likely adapted to the strong elec-
tromagnetic fields present in the area. Magneton and Nosepass evolve when trained in these energy fields, and the cave is filled with levitating crystals. For all the potential such a location has, it isn’t explored much in the Pokémon canon, nor are the implications of its existence for modern technology fully exploited. 
In this version of Chargestone Cave, the crystal rocks’ remarkable properties would revolutionize several 
fields of engineering and manufacture. They are unlike anything scientists have ever seen before, not unex-pected once one realizes their origin. 
The crystal structures are not natural stones but instead engineered storage mediums for Data Lifeform 
Rotoms , castaways from an alien civilization that put themselves into stasis in the crystals to preserve them-
selves for interstellar travel. Their unique properties are a result of the advanced technology that produced them, and they might be set to release the Rotoms from stasis as soon as appropriate technologies they can inhabit are brought in contact with them or within a certain proximity. 
How Do the Players Find It? 
Earthquakes and other seismic activity can open up new and unexplored caves to the surface. Perhaps no one bothered to explore Chargestone Cave much before because of the dangers of Joltik swarms. It could also be that Chargestone cave is deep underground where no one has ventured before, or the cave system around it is filled with hazards such as toxic gas that have just recently dissipated and allowed safe passage through the area. Another possibility is that meteors carrying the cave’s unique crystals recently crashed into a cave system, and the players are investigating. 
art by Loika at http://loika.deviantart.com/
135
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
What Do They Find Inside?
At first, Chargestone Cave is just as it’s repre-sented in the video games and anime. Floating crystals and a medley of strange and exotic Pokémon will fascinate the player characters but not likely cause much surprise. 
It is only when someone brings an advanced 
piece of computer technology, such as a cell phone or Pokédex, into contact or very close proximity with one of the Crystals that the caves reveal their true nature. The Rotom sleeping dormant within the Crystal will awaken and attempt to make contact with the player characters. How they do this is up to you, but it can be as simple as taking control of someone’s cell phone to display messages at the group or as complicated as arcing electricity between the heads of the party members and drawing them into a virtual world simulation created by the computer system in the Crystals. Either way, keep in mind there will be a language barrier at first, though with the Internet at their disposal, the Rotoms should quickly figure out how to communicate with the players. 
These Rotoms are not hostile and take great curiosity in the new world around them. They may be scouts 
from a larger civilization of their kind, sent to search for intelligent life out in the universe. They may be ambassadors, intentionally sent to Earth once they detected from the signals our planet shoots out into space everyday that we had advanced enough to create computer systems they can inhabit and manfest in. They may also be the last remnants of their race, scattered among the stars in a desperate bid for survival as they flee a malevolent force. In any case, they will have a lot to talk about. 
What Does This Mean For Civilization?
The Rotoms will quickly try to integrate themselves into society in a way that lets them learn more about the current situation. Unless your setting is particularly technologically advanced, to the point where mind uploads and interacting in virtual worlds is commonplace, they will likely manufacture human-like syn-thetic bodies to inhabit for the sake of human interaction. First contact with an intelligent alien race will undoubtedly change the face of the Earth in myriad ways, from technology and culture transfer to changing political goals of nations around the world. 
And of course, the Crystals from the cave themselves would provide a boon to modern industry. Computers 
integrate them in their parts, becoming faster and more powerful. The levitating properties are used to pi-oneer hoverbikes and other vehicles before being used to create floating cities. Wireless power transfer can enable a whole host of technologies, from refueling space craft to powering biomedical implants. 
Where Do I Go From Here?
If the Rotom were fleeing some other alien menace, it could well be on the way toward Earth, forcing hu-manity to make preparations against an invasion. If you opted to have the Rotom show the players virtual worlds, they may further explore that, especially if some Crystals were damaged and investigation is neces-sary to repair them and recover data. Other than that, they just found aliens. Go wild with your ideas.
art by hitec at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=1926598
136
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Sword of the Vale
This incarnation of the Sword of the Vale shares many similarities with its appearance in the anime mov-
ies. It’s a floating building in the sky, shaped like that sword, that commands a fearsome power to shape the land, bringing life to it or calling forth destruction. The major difference is that rather than summoning a mystical energy called the Dragon Force, this Sword of the Vale is an alien technological construct designed for terraforming a celestial body. 
Terraforming is a process of radically altering a place’s ecology, atmosphere, temperature, etc to make it suit-
able for a particular type of life. What the existence of the Sword of the Vale in your setting might suggest is that Earth was not always naturally suited to develop life. Someone brought the Sword of the Vale to the planet and deliberately engineered it to support life. Along with notions of Pokémon having extraterrestrial 
origins, such as Clefairy and Staryu, this could suggest a broader project of ‘seeding’ planets throughout the 
galaxy with life. 
How Do the Players Find It? 
If the Sword of the Vale is still high in the sky, it could have been hidden by advanced cloaking and sensor jamming technologies up until recently. Alternatively, it may have already crashed to the ground somewhere and become hidden underground, accessible only by a winding cave system. Consider whether a single Sword of the Vale exists or whether a network of them were used to terraform the Earth.
What Do They Find Inside?
The players will likely be greeted by dormant technologies beyond their immediate understanding. Weath-er control technology and data banks of planets in the galaxy with life on them could be found among the expected geological technologies. The players’ challenge may be to figure out and restart failing alien tech-nologies before the Sword of the Vale crashes down from the sky onto a major city.
art from White – Victini and Zekrom/Black – Victini and Reshiram
137
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
In a strange twist of fate, the Sword of the Vale may have been intended to terraform Earth to become a 
vastly different planet than it is today, changing its atmosphere in a way that would be toxic to currently existing life. Over the course of the eons it traveled through space to reach Earth, the planet developed its own lifeforms, and this mission was aborted. However, still aboard the Sword of the Vale is a vast library of genetic material for life terribly unsuited to live on Earth as it is now. Scientists could possibly use it to engi-neer eggs much as they do for fossils, but will the new creatures be able to survive on the Earth as it is now? 
Of course, players might expect to see Solosis, Duosion, and Victini within the Sword of the Vale when they 
arrive. The former two could be the engineers of the floating structure, kept in cryogenic stasis. Victini itself is an incredibly potent power source used to drive the Sword of the Vale, and it was given sentience so it 
could defend itself and protect the place from intruders. 
What Does This Mean For Civilization?
The discovery of the Sword of the Vale could allow humanity to overcome issues such as global warming 
and environmental destruction. It could also allow for space programs to seriously consider colonizing a 
planet such as Mars by terraforming it first. 
Where Do I Go From Here?
If the Sword of the Vale was found above or in a wasteland, it might about immediately terraforming the 
area and then seeding it with Pokémon life unlike anything seen on Earth before. The land would become a cornucopia of scientific discoveries, and Trainers would rush there to capture the new species. If humanity 
proceeds with a terraforming project, such as on Mars or the Moon, the next plot arc could focus on that 
development. And of course, a criminal organization or corrupt government could seek to weaponize the 
Sword of the Vale, turning it into a destructive instrument capable of leveling entire cities. In a more high 
tech setting, the players may wish to explore the habitable planets listed the Sword of the Vale’s data banks.
art from White – Victini and Zekrom/Black – Victini and Reshiram
138
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Pokémon Tower
Ghost Type Pokémon can be a tricky phenomena to explain in a sci-fi setting. Some GMs may even choose 
to exclude the Type entirely if they want to minimize supernatural elements in their campaign. In most cases, it’s easiest to just take a hand-wave approach and have them as part of the world without much ex-ploration of the whys and hows, but you may also want to acknowledge their origin and offer an acknowl-edgment of their weirdness in a sci-fi setting. Admittedly, the explanation given here is about as blatantly pseudo-scientific as you can get, but that’s what you get when you deal with ghosts. 
This version of Lavender’s iconic Pokémon Tower presents literal ghosts in the machine and takes cues from 
cyberpunk and the idea of living on as digital consciousness past physical death.  A Pokémon burial ground seems like an odd choice for the site of a new radio tower, but there’s a good reason for it in this version of 
the Tower. During the conversion process, the government carried out experiments behind closed doors 
that one might expect to hear about from conspiracy theorists describing the Montauk Project or MKUltra. 
The experiments were a bust, but years later, after the experimental equipment was (mostly) all hauled away and full conversion to a radio tower began, unforeseen side-effects of the experiment began to manifest. 
How Do the Players Find It? 
Of course, you don’t have to set this in Lavender Town. Any city could conceivably host the Pokémon Tow-er. Players may visit to pay their respects to the dead, perhaps a grave of an NPC’s Pokémon or one from a character’s backstory. Even if the players have no reason to visit the Pokémon Tower, the effects of the Tower may find them. In the wake of an NPC’s death in town, the players begin to receive text messages from beyond the grave. The ghostly wails of deceased Pokémon harass them as they listen to the radio. Electronics may function strangely in proximity to the Tower, leading the players closer in as they move about and try to identify the source of the phenomenon. They might have even heard whis-pers and rumors of the experiments conducted inside and come to investigate. 
What Do They Find Inside?
Remember that the Pokémon Tower was the only place in the first generation Pokémon games where Ghost Types could be found. Given that this lo-cation is meant to provide an explanation for the Type’s existence, it’s recommended you do the same 
here, or at least only allow Ghosts to be found in 
similar locations, many of which may be popping 
up as civilization further develops its telecommu-nications technology, spreading outward from the original Pokémon Tower. 
The Tower has been largely cleaned up by this time, 
but the fruitlessness of the initial experiments led to sloppiness and apathy in removing all the sen-
art by purplekecleon at http://purplekecleon.deviantart.com/
139
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
sitive documents and equipment that were brought inside. The exact nature of the experiments and the lo-
cation of  the remnants of the research are up to you, but the suggested general idea is that there is a particle 
the government has been studying that is thought to be the origin of consciousness dubbed the C-Particle, and the experiments have unwittingly produced ghosts in digital forms. Unused basements, secret rooms, and neglected employees only sections are all great places to find the remnants of the research. 
Experiments would have involved attempts to capture and contain this particle as well as observing what 
happens to it when a living organism dies. Pokémon with a close connection to death, such as Cubone, were brought in for these experiments. While initial results were inconclusive, the remnants of the experiment continued to interact with the technology of the Tower for years past the project’s abandonment. 
It turns out that the experiments caused C-Particles to display aberrant properties after all. Normally, when 
a living creature dies, brain death brings with it a dispersal of C-Particles and subsequent loss of memory 
and personality information for that creature, even as the C-Particles found their way into other conscious 
forms. While the methods used to capture and contain these particles appeared to fail, the equipment had a 
permanent effect on C-Particle dispersals in the Tower. Instead of scattering randomly, they became ab-
sorbed into electronics there and resided within the digital technology of the Tower where either a new cat-
alyst or years of incubation caused them to manifest as Ghost Pokémon. It’s up to you whether or not there’s 
significant continuity of consciousness or if these ghosts have only wisps of their former selves.
What Does This Mean For Civilization?
If you’re following the recommendation here, the Pokémon Tower is the first known area of the world 
where Ghost Type Pokémon have been spotted, which would quickly make it a hotbed for research. Ghost 
art by Jord-UK at http://jord-uk.deviantart.com/Pokémon with the ability to phase through walls and turn invisible would present a secu-rity dilemma until Cleanse Tags are invented and put into common usage. There would be a rush of people seeking out real séances to get in contact with their deceased loved ones. 
Where Do I Go From Here?
One of the most obvious continuations from this idea is to pursue what other experime-nts the government may have conducted in other secret locations around the regi-on. This could be an easy way to intro-duce Delta Pokémon and other Type Shifts as well as Glitch Pokémon or alien Pokémon that have been captured by the government. Ghost Pokémon as 
conceptualized here are likely to 
have special properties when it 
comes to electronics and the Wired capability, and this could be used to tie in plots about virtual worlds. 
140
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The following five encounters should prove useful in a pinch to GMs old and new alike. They are roughly 
sorted in order by how experienced a party needs to be to handle them, starting with a simple low level encounter that intentionally riffs off of MMO starting zones and RPG opening tropes and ramping up to a multi-stage battle through a military encampment or highly guarded lab. Difficulty notes assume you have a group of four Trainers and that average Pokémon levels stay about 1.5 to 2 times higher than Trainer levels. 
Definitely make adjustments based on your own judgment and the composition of your player group if 
these assumptions don’t hold true. Most of these encounters don’t provide concrete numbers on how many of each enemy to use. Use your own judgment, as even parties of the same number will vary in strength. 
Three (Not So) Blind Mice
This encounter is appropriate for...low level parties that are just starting their adventure, assuming they’ve 
started with Pok émon around level 10, had perhaps a wild Pokémon encounter or two, and made some 
catches . This is a relatively straightforward scenario that nonetheless demonstrates some of the new features 
of this guidebook. As such, it’s good for early sessions with new players where you want to keep things sim-
ple but still show how a sci-fi setting can change and challenge their familiar assumptions about Pokémon. 
The Setup: A scientist performing experiments on Rattata has lost track of his test subjects, and he needs 
help finding and subduing them. Each of the Rattata has had cybernetic eyes installed to aid in collecting experimental data along with a unique trait to each that shows the nature of the experiments performed on it, from genetic engineering and gene therapy to exposure to glitch phenomena.
The reason the scientist came to the players for help can vary widely. Perhaps the experiments are border -
line ethics violations, and the scientist wants the matter handled quietly before the relevant authorities are 
called in. Maybe the experiments are kosher, but the players are the relevant authorities. 
Approaches: Despite the simple premise, this challenge can proceed in multiple ways, not all of them nec-
essarily ending in combat. If the scenario plays out in a large and messy laboratory complex, then simply finding the missing Rattata could make up most of the challenge. The players would move from room to room, searching for signs of their passing such as chewed wires and spilled containers. On the other hand, it could be very obvious where the Rattata have gone, and it’s just a matter of recovering them without losing a few fingers in the process. 
Once found, the encounter doesn’t have to turn immediately to combat. Players may try to coax the Rattata 
back into their cages with food, by charming them, or having their Pokémon act as liaisons. They may also decide to set up non-violent traps and chase the Rattata inside. Of course, there always is the simple option to fight them and bring them back to the scientist once they’ve been fainted. 
However, consider that the players may not even want to help the scientist out. Maybe the trip through the 
lab while searching for the Rattata has shown them the remnants of a few experiments that are just a bit too extreme for them. They may be repulsed by the Rattata themselves upon seeing the state they’re in. In such cases, the players may wish to rescue the Rattata and escape with them in tow.Assorted Encounters
141
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Combat Stats
True to the name of the encounter, there are three Rattata stat blocks here with different traits caused by the scientist’s experiments on them. Feel free to double up, remove Rattatas, or add the Rattata Pokébot stats at the end of this section as you wish to adjust the difficulty of the encounter and fit it to your players.
Genetically Engineered Rattata
Level 16
Type : Poison
Abilities : Poison Point
Augmentations: Smart Vision (2 capacity)
Hit Points: 62
HP 12 / Atk 14 / Def 5 / Sp.Atk 1 / Sp.Def 5 / Speed 15
Moves : Poison Fang, Bite, Hyper Fang, Focus Energy, Quick Attack, Pursuit
Glitch Rattata
Level 16Type : Typeless, weak to Dragon, Steel, and Grass, Resists Fairy, Fighting, and Poison
Abilities : Synchronize
Vitamins: Calcium, Heart Booster
Augmentations: Smart Vision (2 capacity), Thermal-Optical Camouflage (4 capacity) 
Hit Points: 50HP 8 / Atk 4 / Def 8 / Sp.Atk 12 / Sp.Def 8 / Speed 13
Moves : Disable, Super Fang, Focus Energy, Icy Wind, Shock Wave, Tail Whip
Note : Has the Teleporter 2 Capability
Highly Augmented Rattata
Level 16
Type : Normal
Vitamins: ProteinAugmentations: Dermal Plating (3 capacity), Smart Vision (2 capacity), Wired Reflexes (4 capacity)Hit Points: 62
HP 12 / Atk 17 / Def 4 / Sp.Atk 1 / Sp.Def 4 / Speed 15 (25 initiative, 4 evasion)
Moves : Hyper Fang, Bite, Focus Enegy, Quick Attack, Zen Headbutt, Sucker Punch
Robotic Rattata (Small Pokébot) 
Level 16
Hit Points: 71
HP 15 / Atk 15 / Def 5 / Sp.Atk 1 / Sp.Def 5 / Speed 10
Add-Ons: Take Down, Tackle, and Slash in Mov e List. Motor Drive Ability and Immune to Paralysis.
142
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Amazing Mawile Machine
This encounter is appropriate for...parties of all experience 
levels! Its numbers are easily scaled for use with hardened veterans or for very green Trainers who are just starting off. 
This is a relatively silly and light-hearted encounter and won’t likely
leave anyone with more than minor scrapes and bruises unless horriblymishandled, which as we all know players are apt to do. 
The Setup: The players are enjoying a tour of a toy store or factory when a mobile Mawile-shaped Pokébot 
factory that makes collectible Mawilebots suddenly goes terribly out of control, producing tons of hyper-en-ergetic toy Mawiles that then proceed to unintentionally wreck havoc until cleaned up. This works best in an industrial setting, where there are plenty of machines to muck up with swarms of Mawilebots. It can also be placed in a shopping mall or other commercial center. Anywhere works really, as long as you don’t try to run this encounter out in a boring, plain, empty field. 
Approaches: Now, a typical player response to this situation is probably “just blow up the factory” . However, 
chances are, the owner of the mobile Mawilebot factory probably wants it back in one piece rather than a pile of yellow and gray cogs and doodads. In fact, one really solid attack or an EMP grenade probably will put the factory out of commission permanently, but that will probably result in a pretty poor outcome for the player characters. Alternatively, you may choose to make direct attacks on the factory ramp up the rate at which it spews out Mawilebots as it breaks down and increasingly goes out of control. 
So should the players ideally cope with this situation? Destroying the small Mawilebots isn’t in itself a great 
strategy either, since they’re still valuable products for the owner of the mobile factory. Instead, players should be encouraged to find creative solutions to immobilizing the bots without breaking them, such as stuffing them into boxes, having a Pelipper pick them up in its oversized mouth, luring the bots into a trap with a real Mawile, etc. This can be adjudicated with skill checks or the GM’s judgment of cleverness. 
This is a time for players to be creative with fluff uses of the Moves their Pokémon know, such as using Ice 
Beam to ice over a door so the Mawilebots can’t get through to the important server room on the other side 
or declaring a Fiery Dance as a way to distract and mystify the curious Mawilebots. 
As for the factory itself, it will enter a standby mode on its own in a short amount of time as its out-
of-control rampage quickly drains its internal battery. In game time, this is 6 rounds, though you may choose to adjust this as fits your number of players and how difficult you want this encounter to be. art by Daisukebeisu at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=306374
This is probably the single most self-indulgent thing cast has put into this entire guidebook. Just...I dunno, nod your head and pretend to find the idea as cute as he does. #smh #mawilenerd #don’tworkonPTUat5AM

143
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Players may elect to try to repair the mobile factory on the fly to shorten the amount of time it takes to 
come back under control or engage the standby mode. This requires a contested Acrobatics check followed by a Technology Education check if the first check is successful. The Trainer or Pokémon performing this check must Shift adjacent to the factory. Keep track of the total rolled in all Technology Education checks when players attempt this; every increment of 15 should reduce the turns until standby by one. 
Both the factory and the Mawilebots are assumed to be fragile enough to fall after one attack, so all that’s 
provided here is a set of capabilities and skills with which you can adjudicate this improv-based encounter. Factory : Overland 8, Jump 1/1, Athl 4d6+2, Acro 3d6+2, Combat 2d6, Stealth 2d6, Percep 4d6, Focus 4d6
Mawilebot : Overland 6, Jump 2/2, Athl 3d6, Acro 4d6+1, Combat 3d6, Stealth 4d6, Percep 3d6, Focus 1d6
Mechanics and Gauging Success: Rather than be a traditional combat encounter based on simply knocking 
out foes, this encounter introduces a meter for Collateral Damage. The more Collateral Damage the ram-
paging Mawilebots are allowed to do, the less of a reward the players will receive from cleaning up. 
The encounter starts with the factory having produced 3 Mawilebots, though you may scale this amount 
up. The Factory has 15 speed, and each Mawilebot has 20 speed. At the beginning of each round (not on the 
factory’s initiative), the factory produces 1d4 new Mawilebots which can then act that turn. 
These events cause Collateral Damage. Turn counts indicate how long they take to finish or if the Collateral 
Damage scales by time. Additional Mawilebots performing the same act increment the turn count. (Don’t 
be a jerk about this) Events with an effect on nearby targets are AC 2 attacks that don’t hit other Mawilebots. 
Feel free to come up with your own events or increase Collateral Damage from destructive player actions!
Destroy a Mawilebot : +1 Collateral Damage
Destroy the Factory: +25 Collateral Damage
Mawilebots topple crates!: 1 Turn, +1 Collateral Damage, adjacent targets take 25 Normal physical damage
Mawilebots spill paint cans and marbles!: 1 Turn, +1 Collateral Damage, adjacent targets are Tripped.
Mawilebots eat through valuable machinery!: Turn 1: +1 Collateral Damage, Turn 2: +3, Turn 3: +5  
Mawilebots eat through fuel tanks!: 3 Turns, +12 Collateral Damage, targets in 2m are BurnedMawilebots trash the servers!: 4 Turns, +20 Collateral Damage, targets in 3m take 50 Elec special damage
Mawilebots harass innocent customers!: 1d2 Turns, +1d4 Collateral Damage
Mawilebots bring offerings to the factory!: 2 Turns, roll 1d20, on 13-20 add one more turn until standby
Mawilebots build a friend!: 2 Turns, add another Mawilebot to the encounter
Rewards: 
0-10 Collateral Damage: Wow! Y ou really kept the situation under control. Take a Vitamin or something.
11-20 Collateral Damage: Not bad, take a decent TM or maybe even an Evolution Stone. 
21-30 Collateral Damage: Ehh, at least you finished the job. Take a decent special Poké Ball.
31+ Collateral Damage: No reward! Y ou probably blew up the factory or something. Jerk.
(Y ou can also reward players with their very own cute hyperactive Mawilebots!)
P.S. It is absolutely mandatory that you put on the 
Breakfast Machine theme from Pee-Wee’s Big Adventure as you run this encounter. Seriously. 

144
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Crystalline Parasects’ Mysterious Cave
This encounter is appropriate for...parties with Pokémon in the 20s to 30s, if you intend for this to strict-
ly be a combat encounter. It can easily be scaled to handle higher level parties, but it isn’t recommended to de-level this encounter for weaker parties. However, lower level groups, even at starting level, can take this on as a roleplaying challenge and try to negotiate their way to their goal. It is especially appropriate for introducing new characters in a space-faring campaign to just how strange alien life can be and how their thought processes differ from our own. 
The Setup: A small colony of Crystalline Parasects (see Pokémon Variants in Chapter 1) is in possession of 
something the players need. Perhaps one of the Parasects scavenged a crystal power source, data banks, or other piece of technology from a crashed ship belonging to the players or the benefactors. Maybe they’ve 
made their home around a rare mineral source that the players need to retrieve to repair their technology or 
as part of a research project. 
Of course, the Parasect and the large sentient crystal spires they live among have found their own use for 
this macguffin, whatever it might be. It won’t be a simple matter of walking in and taking the prize. 
Approaches: The simplest approach is, of course, to simply kick down the metaphorical door and charge in 
guns blazing, but it’s recommended that you at least try to steer your players toward attempting diplomacy first. Both the Parasect and the crystal spires within their cave homes are intelligent, and you should give signs indicating such. The easiest way to demonstrate this is clear use of tools, language, and art in the caves. Sculptures and carvings would clearly signal advanced intelligence to the players. 
The twist here is that the Parasect and crystals think and plan in terms of incredibly long spans of time. If 
the resource they guard is needed to repair medical bay equipment to save the life of one fellow crew mem-ber for example, they may have trouble understanding the urgency. For them, when a member of the colony dies, their crystal is taken to make a seed for another, imparting memories and experience from both the host bug and its crystal to a new host. 
Whatever their plans are for the resource they guard, they involve a pay-off decades away and on a grander 
scale than whatever the players likely have planned. To disrupt these plans for what they perceive as mo-mentary diversions seems foolish to them. 
If the players are to convince the Parasects and crystals to give up their prize, they will have to negotiate 
with an understanding of this mindset. They might try to win them over by explaining the long term ben-efits of human-Parasect cooperation or the grander implications of the seemingly small task they wish to 
accomplish, for example. 
Of course, it’s just as likely they might lose their patience and try to take the item by force. After all, some-
one could be dying as they negotiate, and the crystals and Parasects are known to take their painfully slow time to deliberate and think before responding to any inquiries or explanations. Keep in mind if running a 
combat encounter that the Crystal Spires are not Pokémon and may not be captured. 
145
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Combat Stats
For this encounter, mix and match a number of Crystal Spires and Crystalline Parasect as you see fit based on the size of the player character party. There should generally be fewer Crystal Spires than Parasect, no more than three except in the case of truly large parties.
Crystalline Parasect (Enfeebler)
Level 30 Type : Bug/Rock
Abilities : Cave Crasher, Mnemonic Minerals 
Pokémon Edges: Attack Conflict (Sp. Attack), Advanced Connection (Shock Quartz)Hit Points: 97HP 19 / Atk 6 / Def 22 / Sp.Atk 8 / Sp.Def 22 / Speed 3
Moves : Disable, Harden, Shock Quartz, Light Screen, Counter, Toxic, Swagger
Crystalline Parasect (Attacker)
Level 30Type : Bug/Rock
Abilities : Clear Body, Synchronize
Hit Points: 88HP 16 / Atk 4 / Def 17 / Sp.Atk 21 / Sp.Def 17 / Speed 5
Moves : Disable, Power Gem, Shock Quartz, Psybeam, Shadow Ball, Shock Wave
Crystal Spire 
Type : Rock/Psychic
Abilities : Memory Wipe, Forewarn, Scrappy
Hit Points: 150HP 30 / Atk 5 / Def 25 / Sp.Atk 30 / Sp.Def 25 / Speed 10
Moves : Reflect, Heal Pulse (on Parasect only), Tri-Attack (At-Will), Telekinesis, Thunderwave, Hypnosis
Special : The Crystal Spires are fixed structures in the battle and cannot Shift. However, the Parasect will 
attempt to stay as close to them as possible, using their Shock Quartz hazards to cripple their opponents. As 
long as at least one Crystal Spire remains standing, the Parasect have a few tricks they can use to turn the tide of battle. Each of these effects has an EOT frequency measured per Spire, requires that a Parasect be able to move adjacent to a Crystal Spire, and requires a Standard Action to activate. 
Blackout – The Crystal Spire absorbs all the light in the cave, plunging the area into pitch black darkness for 
a round. With their Darkvision capabilities, the Parasect are not impeded by this, but the players might be!Galvanic Field – The Crystal Spire creates an Electric Type weather effect. All foes that aren’t Electric Type, Ground Type, or Crystalline Parasect lose 1/10th of their full Hit Points at the beginning of each turn. The Spire may maintain this field indefinitely but may only act every other turn while it is active. Frequency Refresh – The Crystal Spire gives up its next Standard Action, and the freqencies of all of the Parasect’s and the Spire’s Moves are refreshed as if they were treated at a Pokémon Center. 
146
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Apparatus
This encounter is appropriate for...trainers with Pok émon in the high 30s or in the 40s. It can easily be 
scaled up or down to make for a more or less difficult encounter, however. 
The Setup: A strange Claydol with an affinity for electronics has set itself up in the middle of a small arena 
of its own creation, complete with spiked wall traps, laser cannons, and electric barriers. This encounter has a number of rather game-like elements such as the enclosed arena, which means it probably makes the most sense to pose it as a battle for sport rather than a wild Pokémon encounter or a life and death encounter against a criminal group or other malicious person or organization. 
It’s certainly possible to use this encounter for those purposes, but you will need to come up with a com-
pelling enough reason to battle this Claydol on its own terms that the players wouldn’t simply look at the environment then make a 180 and leave. 
Y ou can accomplish this several ways. If the Claydol’s sanctum has something the players need, they will be 
forced to confront it or likely give it up. Maybe the Claydol’s presence is wrecking havoc on the power grid, or it’s slowly converting the area around it to is strange death trap, forcing the players to confront it early be-fore it grows much worse. Adding time sensitivity to a task could make them more willing to take the risk. And it’s always possible the overtly dangerous aspects of the environment are usually hidden out of sight, only revealing themselves when the party attacks the Claydol.
Approaches: The Apparatus is designed as a combat encounter, though you can add a bit of variety to it by 
running it with one segment of the party concurrent with a scene nearby where the rest of them try to shut down the power for the building or disable the traps the Claydol has set up. 
Combat Stats: Claydol
Aside from The Apparatus itself that the Claydol has constructed, there’s only really one combatant in the encounter, and it’s the Claydol. Y ou will probably want to apply what is a good rule of thumb for most PTU boss encounters to this fight. 
Give the Claydol multiple HP bars, a number equal to the number of players present. Any effects based on a 
percentage of HP or that automatically KO apply to only one HP bar. Give the Claydol the same number of actions per round, spreading them out throughout the initiative order in multiples of its speed divided by 2. 
Claydol
Level 50 @ Glitchcore HeadphonesType : Electric/Psychic 
Abilities : Levitate, Glitchmorph*, Clay Cannons
Vitamins: PP Up, HP Up x2Hit Points: 129 per HP barHP 23 / Atk 5 / Def 25 / Sp.Atk 24 / Sp.Def 26 / Speed 10 (Extra initiative ticks at increasing multiples of 5)
Moves : Extrasensory, Discharge (At-Will), Hyper Beam, Electrostorm**, Signal Beam, Heal Block, Count-
er/Mirror Coat 
147
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Glitchcore Headphones: Pokémon Held Item, Trainer Head Slot Item. Grants the Interference Ability. 
*Glitchmorph – Static – Connection: Counter/Mirror Coat. Pokémon with the Glitchmorph Ability can 
switch between Polygon and Mesh Forms as a Shift Action at Every Other Turn frequency. In Polygon Form, the Pokémon has the Rough Skin Ability and Counter as a Connection Move. In Mesh Form, the Pokémon has the Magic Bounce Ability and Mirror Coat as a Connection Move. 
**Electrostorm – Battle – Electric Type – Status, Field, Weather – The weather changes to a Static Field. In a 
Static Field, all non-Ground or Electric Type Pokémon lose 1/16th of their full HP at the beginning of their turn. 
The difference in appearances between Polygon and Mesh Forms appears similar to the difference between 
Porygon and Porygon2. Claydol’s color scheme is now more vibrant, appearing like the multitude of bright 
colors that manifest when a computer monitor  or TV is displaying glitchy effects. Bright purples, greens, 
blues, and yellows mainly, in a constantly changing coat of color. 
The battlefield on which the Claydol fights is set up as below. Entrances can be on any side of the enclosure. 
Each segment of the 3x3 grid is itself 3 meters by 3 meters, making the entire enclosure 9 by 9 meters large.

148
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Combat Stats: The Apparatus
As you can see, the arena has a number of special features that make this fight unique. This is the epony-mous Apparatus of the encounter and is composed of discrete segments that either act passively or can be activated on its turn. Defeating the Claydol shuts down the Apparatus. Each part of the Apparatus has its own set of stats, and the Apparatus as a whole has stats as follows.
Type : Steel/Electric (all parts of the Apparatus are considered this Type)
Hit Points: 400
Speed 40 / 30 / 20 / 10 (the Apparatus acts 4 times a round, losing one action for each 100 HP it loses) 
The Apparatus itself cannot be targeted, but whenever a segment of the Apparatus takes damage, the Ap-
paratus as a whole loses that many Hit Points. Hit Points lost this way per part of the Apparatus cannot exceed that part’s maximum Hit Points. The Apparatus is immune to status effects. Alternatively, you may 
use a similar setup to the Claydol and give the Apparatus a number of 100 Hit Point health bars equal to the 
number of players in the encounter, each acting on a multiple of 10 in the initiative order. 
The following are the parts and features of the Apparatus. Parts of the Apparatus have no Speed Stat. 
1. The arena is segmented into 9 squares by electrical barriers marked as lightning bolts. These are consid-
ered to be between squares and do not take up any space on the battlefield. Any Pokémon or Trainer pass-
ing through an electrical barrier loses 1/10th of their full Hit Points. This effect is considered to be dealing 
damage. Apply Weakness and Resistance. Do not apply stats. The Claydol in this encounter is immune to this effect.
Each barrier between two squares has 20 Hit Points and 10 Defense and Sp. Defense. 
2. Below each square of the arena is a floating transportation mechanism which allows it to quickly swap 
places with any other square of the arena. One swap requires a single action on the part of the Apparatus. 
Remember that this will likely carry combatants through electrical barriers, forcing them to take damage. 
These transportation mechanisms must be specifically targeted and are not affected by area of effect Moves 
that target any targets above the square. 
The mechanism under a square has 40 Hit Points and 15 Defense and Sp. Defense. It has the Levitate Ability. 
3. Individual tiles can be electrified in the arena. Each Trainer and Pokémon touching the ground in an 
electrified tile when this is activated immediately suffers the effect of an electrical barrier. Any Trainers or 
Pokémon moving onto an electrified tile suffer the effect as well. This requires a single action by the Appa-
ratus to activate, and this may not be activated multiple times per turn for the same tile. If a tile is no longer 
cardinally adjacent to any functional electrical barriers, this effect may not be activated for that tile. 
Eight devices are arrayed along the outer edges of the arena. These are situated on a rotating ring which can 
move clockwise or counterclockwise one spot at the beginning of every turn as a Free Action. Each part of 
the Apparatus on this ring can only affect the square it is immediately in front of, but each of its effects can 
affect any target in that square regardless of range. This means none of these parts can affect Pokémon and 
Trainers standing in the very center of the arena. The circular shapes with a crimson rectangle are Dynamic 
Cannons. The claw shapes are Claw Cranes. The magnet shapes are Electro-Magnets. 
149
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
4. Dynamic Cannons are activated with a single action by the Apparatus. Each cannon can be activated 
multiple times a turn. They have the following stats. 
Abilities : Beam Cannon, Compound Eyes, Levitate
Hit Points: 65 
Sp.Atk 20 / Def 10 / Sp.Def 10
Moves : Flash Cannon, Flame Burst, Metal Spray*, Bubblebeam, Dark Pulse, Vacuum Wave
*Metal Spray  – Battle – Steel – Status, 5m, 1 Target – For the next 1d4+1 turns, the target is treated as if it 
were Steel Type, losing its other Types. 
5. Claw Cranes are activated with a single action and may only act once a turn. They have the following 
stats.
Abilities : Iron Barbs, Cruelty, Levitate
Hit Points: 50
Atk 30 / Def 15 / Sp.Def 15
Moves : Shadow Claw, Dragon Claw, Crush Claw, Metal Claw, Fury Swipes, Block
6. Electro-Magnets are activated with a single action. Each magnet may act multiple times a turn. They have 
the following stats. 
Abilities : Magnet Pull, Levitate
Hit Points: 80
Attack 25 / Def 20 / Sp.Def 20
In addition, Elecro-Magnets may target Steel Type Pokémon or Trainers (affected by Metal Spray) to push 
them or pull them either directly away from the magnet’s facing or towards it, until they hit a wall of the arena. Upon doing so, spikes just from the wall and impale the target. This is an At-Will AC 2 effect that 
deals a Typeless Physical attack with damage base equal to the number of meters traveled before stopping. 
This causes a target to Flinch on 17-20 on Accuracy Roll. 
7. The Apparatus is in an unstable room. Any Groundsource Moves that are used causes a storm of shrapnel 
and electricity to fly up in the affected area. 
Treat this as an AC 2 attack targeting all squares affected by the Groundsource Move, including the user’s 
square if it is a Burst. It has a Damage Base of 12 (3d12+10 / 30) and deals either Steel or Electric Type Phys-
ical damage, whichever would be more effective. Use an Attack stat of 25 and treat this attack as if it had the 
Smite Keyword. The Apparatus is immune to this effect, but the Claydol is not. 
8. The Apparatus can protect itself from harm. It can create Barriers as like the Barrier Move anywhere in 
the arena once a round with one of its actions. These are treated as Steel Type and have 30 HP . In addition, it 
may use the Moves Protect and Wide Guard once an encounter each when any of its parts are targeted. 
150
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Spoils of the Battle
Unless the party is absolutely loaded up with Ground Type Pokémon and Moves, this is likely to be a gru-eling and deadly encounter. Luckily for the players, if they make it through, the Apparatus can be scrapped for parts, and there are many items they can take home from the encounter. 
First of all, the Claydol. Y ou should not make it catchable in the course of the battle. It’s simply too affected 
by some glitch phenomena to be energized by a Poké Ball. Instead, upon being defeated it leaves behind its Glitchcore Headphones, which occasionally emit an electrical spark. This acts as an “egg” for this special Claydol, and it will hatch into a Baltoy that jumps out of the headphones in an average hatch rate of 10 days.
This Baltoy has the following stats and mechanical changes:
Type : Electric/Psychic
Basic Ability: Levitate
Advanced Ability 1: Glitchmorph
Advanced Ability 2: Static
High Ability: Inner Focus for Baltoy, Clay Cannons for Claydol
Capabilities : Gains the Wired and Zapper Capabilities. 
Skills : Gains a rating of 3d6+1 in Tech Edu as Baltoy, 4d6+3 as Claydol
Move-List Changes: Harden becomes Conversion and Conversion2, Mud-Slap becomes Thundershock, 
Rock Tomb becomes Thunderwave, Ancientpower becomes Charge, Earth Power becomes Discharge, Sandstorm becomes Electrostorm. Ground Type Tutor and TM Moves are lost in favor of Electric Type.
If the players can salvage the following from the Apparatus, especially if the associated parts were left intact. 
Mix and match what the players find as you want! Y ou may require that they put together parts from multi-
ple portions of the Apparatus to assemble certain items. Obviously you shouldn’t give out every single item on this list, but be generous if the party took a serious beatdown. Items that are not explicitly detailed can be 
found at the beginning of Chapter 2 in the Basic Sci-Fi Gear section.
Electrical Barrier: Electirizer, Shock Charge (one time use item, grants Static for the duration of a battle), 
Electric Type GemSwapping Mechanism: Float Crystal (one time use item, grants Levitate for the duration of a battle), Psy-
chic Type Gem
Dynamic Cannon: Laser Rifle, Flame Jet, Bubble Blaster (Water Type ranged weapon, allows the user to use 
Bubblebeam if an Edge is taken), Liquidmetal Vaporizer (one time use item, uses the Move Metal Spray)
Crane Claw: Razor Claw, Cruel Nail (one time use item, grants Cruelty for the duration of a battle), Ex-
tendable Grabby Arm, Lifting Frame
Electro-Magnet: Magnet (Electric Type Booster), Tug Magnet (one time use item, grants Magnet Pull for 
the duration of a battle)
Barriers: Metal Coat, Steel Type Gem
Misc: Up-Grade, Dubious Disc, Glitch Detection Crystal
151
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
The Obligatory Mechanical Monstrosity
This encounter is appropriate for...very  high level parties. Pokémon levels should be in the 40s on average 
at least, probably higher. The encounter is meant to be approached in multiple stages of battle to ensure the 
player characters aren’t at their full strength by the time they reach the main attraction, a two and a half sto-ry tall mecha in the shape of a Metagross. Forcing the players to run a longer gauntlet until they reach the “boss battle” portion of the encounter is the easiest way to scale up the difficulty if necessary.
The Setup: The players have found themselves face to face with a horrific mechanical killing machine and a 
small army to back it up. Maybe the players broke down the door to the wrong lab. Perhaps they’re soldiers facing down the enemy’s superweap on. Players may have allied NPCs fighting alongside them, and it is rec-
ommended that this be the case if the encounter is too overwhelming otherwise. 
Approaches: There aren’t really any choices here. Fight or die. Combat Stats: Forward Troops
These are the first line of defense, ranging from Electrode traps to large humanoid robots with big guns and a distaste for “meatbags” . Number these to take out a few of the party’s Pokémon but also fall quickly to move on to the next phase of the encounter. 
Hunter Killer Security Droid (Large Pokébot) 
Level 50Type : Steel
Add-Ons: Combat Basics Suite (Tackle, Take Down, Flash Cannon), Advanced Weapons Suite (Fire Punch, Flame Burst, Incinerate OR Thunderpunch, Discharge, and Magnet Rise), Advanced Combat Suite: Metal Coat (Steel Typing), Advanced Agility System (Overland 8 and Jump 2/2 Capabilities), Advanced Magnetics System (Magnetic Capability, Magnet Pull Ability, immunity to Scramble and EMP)Hit Points: 135HP 25 / Atk 1 / Def 6 / Sp.Atk 30 / Sp.Def 8 / Speed 30 
art by eichi at http://www.pixiv.net/member.php?id=2524752
152
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Electrode Trap
Level 50Type : Electric
Abilities : Static, Soundproof, Aftermath
Vitamins: ProteinHit Points: 105HP 15 / Atk 36 / Def 7 / Sp.Atk 8 / Sp.Def 8 / Speed 37
Moves : Explosion, Spark, Thunderwave, Mirror Coat, Magic Coat, Toxic
Porygon Z Sentry
Level 55 @ Focus Band
Type : Normal 
Abilities : Trace, Download, Targeting System
Pokémon Edges: Advanced Connection (Lock-On)
Vitamins: PP Up (Tri-Attack)
Hit Points: 147
HP 29 / Atk 6 / Def 7 / Sp.Atk 40 / Sp.Def 8 / Speed 30 
Moves : Tri-Attack (At-Will), Discharge, Signal Beam, Lock-On, Ice Beam, Psyshock, Hidden Power (Fight-
ing)
Combat Stats: Main Attraction
The brunt of the opposition in this battle is the giant Metagross-shaped mecha. Mechagross. It is composed 
of five different targets, each with its own Hit Point bar, initiative tick, and stats. They’re affected separately by status effects. They’re its four legs and its core body. Accompanying it are a trio of normal Metagross with 
cybernetic augmentations and at least two Battlefield Tactician Trainers to maximize their fighting power. 
Mechagross Core
Type : n/a, gains STAB on Steel
Weakness: Fire, Electric
Resist : Rock, Fighting, Water, Ice, Grass, Normal
Immune: Poison
Abilities : Absorb Force, Interference, Magnet Pull, Sturdy
Hit Points: 250
HP 50 / Atk 5 / Def 30 / Sp.Atk 20 / Sp.Def 30 / Speed 20
Moves : Light Screen, Reflect, Safeguard, Recover, Flash Cannon (At-Will), Dark Pulse
Special – Advanced Energy Shield: All allies, including itself, have 35 temporary Hit Points. This can be 
refreshed once a battle as a Swift Action. However, if Mechagross Core is brought below 50% of its maxi-
mum Hit Points, all temporary Hit Points are lost, though it returns to its previous state of Mechagross Core 
is healed above 50% Hit Points.
Special – Targeting Computer: As a Swift Action, Mechagross Core grants a target +3 to Accuracy Check. 
Special – Prismatic Alignment: Mechagross ignores half of all foes’ Special Defense for the purposes of 
both evasion and calculating damage. 
153
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Mechagross Leg
Type : n/a, gains STAB on Fire and Steel
Weakness: Fire, Electric, GroundResist : Rock, Fighting, Water, Ice, Grass, Normal, Flying
Immune: PoisonAbilities : Run Away, Iron Barbs, Clear Body, Speed Boost
Capabilities : Reach (Large Size)
Hit Points: 205HP 35 / Atk 40 / Def 20 / Sp.Atk 40 / Sp.Def 20 / Speed 16
Moves : Earthquake, Iron Head, Stomp, Aura Sphere, Flame Burst (At-Will), Shadow Ball 
Special – Autonomous Action: Even if the Mechagross Core is taken out, each Leg can still act inde-
pendently and can separate from the core if necessary.
Special – Booming Steps: Whenever Mechagross Leg uses a 1 Target, Melee attack, its area of effect is a 2m 
Close Blast instead. 
Special – Missile Barrage: Whenever Mechagross Leg uses a 1 Target, ranged attack, it may attack an addi-
tional 1d2 targets at once. 
Note : Mechagross components never hit each other or Cybernetic Metagross with area of effect attacks.
Cybernetic Metagross (Crush)
Level 60 @ Razor Claw
Type : Steel/Psychic
Abilities : Clear Body, Cluster Mind, Thrust
Augmentations: Smart Vision (2 capacity, upgraded with Experimental Designs)
Pokémon Edges: Attack Conflict (Special Attack), Ability Mastery
Vitamins: PP Up, HP Up
Hit Points: 157
HP 29 / Atk 55 / Def 30 / Sp.Atk 8 / Sp.Def 10 / Speed 7
Moves : Earthquake, Meteor Mash, Hammer Arm, Stone Edge, Giga Impact, Iron Head (At-Will), Bullet 
Punch, Swords Dance, Feint
Cybernetic Metagross (Support)
Level 60 @ Evasion BoosterType : Steel/Psychic
Abilities : Clear Body, Cluster Mind
Augmentations: Smart Vision (2 capacity), Dermal Plating (3 capacity, upgraded with Experimental De-
signs)
Pokémon Edges: Attack Conflict (Special Attack), Ability Mastery
Vitamins: PP Up, Zinc x2
Hit Points: 142
HP 24 / Atk 38 / Def 30 / Sp.Atk 8 / Sp.Def 30 / Speed 10
Moves : Telekinesis (Scene x3), Block, Scary Face, Stealth Rock, Toxic, Bullet Punch, Zen Headbutt, Pursuit
154
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Cybernetic Metagross (Blitz)
Level 60 @ Shell BellType : Steel/Psychic
Abilities : Clear Body, Cluster Mind, Thrust
Augmentations: Smart Vision (2 capacity)Pokémon Edges: Attack Conflict (Special Attack), Ability MasteryVitamins: PP Up, Carbos x4Hit Points: 148 HP 26 / Atk 39 / Def 27 / Sp.Atk 10 / Sp.Def 10 / Speed 30
Moves : Agility, Brick Break, Bullet Punch, Pursuit, Ice Punch, Thunder Punch, Rock Slide, Zen Headbutt
Battlefield Tactician
Trainer Level 41Classes: Coordinator / Cheerleader / Attack Ace / Enduring SoulHit Points: 152HP 20 / Atk 5 / Def 20 / Sp.Atk 5 / Sp.Def 20 / Speed 15Important Features:Coordinator – Decisive Director, Nuanced Performance, Reliable PerformanceCheerleader – Go, Fight, Win!Attack Ace – Stat Link, Stat Maneuver, Stat EmbodimentEnduring Soul – Awareness, Resilience, Not Y et!Generic – Ravager Orders, Trickster Orders
Equipment : Light Armor (+5 Damage Reduction), Gas Mask, Focus Band
Items : Burn and Paralysis Pester Balls, Sting Grenade, Hyper Potion, Revive, Full Heal
Combat Stats: Extras 
The following are just some spare combatants that can be thrown in to make a certain stage of the encounter even tougher or to add more stages to the encounter. Underneath each stat block will be a brief explanation of how to integrate it into the encounter.
Rainy Ludicolo
Level 50 @ LeftoversType : Water/Grass
Abilities : Swift Swim, Rain Dish, Confidence
Hit Points: 123HP 21 / Atk 5 / Def 7 / Sp.Atk 30 / Sp.Def 25 / Speed 20
Moves : Rain Dance, Surf, Water Sport, Bubblebeam, Energy Ball, Teeter Dance (Scene x3)
Ludicolo can support the Mechagross and the Cybernetic Metagross very well by setting up Rain to hedge 
against their Fire weakness and then activating Confidence to boost their combat stages. Note that the Cy-bernetic Metagross all have the Clear Body Ability, making this strategy potentially exceedingly powerful. In addition, Ludicolo provides some coverage that’s missing from the rest of the encounter with its strong Water and Grass Type attacks.
155
Chapter Four: Sample Campaign and Setting Concepts
Atmospheric Tentacruel
Level 50 @ King’s RockType : Flying/Poison
Abilities : Liquid Ooze, Lightningrod, Illuminate
Vitamins: PP Up, HP Up x2Hit Points: 126HP 22 / Atk 5 / Def 7 / Sp.Atk 25 / Sp.Def 30 / Speed 25 
Moves : Thunder, Hurricane, Air Slash (At-Will), Sludge Bomb, Toxic Spikes, Giga Drain
This variant of Tentacruel can be found in Chapter 2. It synergizes well with Ludicolo’s Rain, and its Light-
ningrod Ability can direct Electric attacks away from Mechagross. It can also be used along with Ludicolo to add more phases to the scenario, such as a battle when passing by labs in a military complex. 
Psionic Assassins
Trainer Level 41Classes: Telepath / Researcher (Upgrader) / HunterAbilities : Telepathy, Teamwork
Augmentations: Smart Vision (2 capacity),  Thermal-Optic Camouflage (4 capacity) Hit Points: 179HP 29 / Atk 5 / Def 10 / Sp.Atk 30 / Sp.Def 15 / Speed 30Important Features:Telep ath  – Telepathic Awareness (Telepathy), Mental Assault (Psyshock, Extrasensory), Honed Mind 
(Mind Reader, Calm Mind), Thought DetectionResearcher – Upgrader Field Hunter  – Hunter (Teamwork), Hunter’s Reflexes, Surprise!, Finisher
Generic  – Blur, Signature Move (Extrasensory) 
Equipment : Light Armor (+5 Damage Reduction), Helmet, Running Shoes, Focus (+5 Special Damage)
Items : Revive, Full Heal, Super Potion, Zap Blaster or Inferno Cannon, Flashbang
These Trainers can be thrown in at any stage of the battle and may even move with the battle, which is facil-itated by their vehicle below. Their primary trick is to use Mind Reader to guarantee a hit with a Zap Blaster or Inferno Cannon. 
Armored Hoverbike (Personal Sized Vehicle)
Upgrades: Structural Integrity x2, Reinforced Alloys, Vehicle Speed Upgrade, Breach-Resistance Armor, Armored Plating Upgrade x2Hit Points: 120Def 13 / Sp.Def 13 Capabilities : Overland 10, Breach Security 2, Breach Capacity 5
Mounted Weaponry: Gatling Gun Tier 3 – Uses the Move Spike Cannon. Adds 27 as Attack Stat when used by Psionic Assassins.
156
Changelog
art by RobtheDoodler at http://robthedoodler.deviantart.com/Changelog 1.02
Once again, spending time working on other parts of the system, in particular the core book and the redone 
Game of Throhs book, has kept me from spending a lot of time here. Think of this as a stop-gap update that performs just enough maintenance to make this book usable with 1.05 but is a setup for much bigger changes later on. I think this book is due for an overhaul similar to what Game of Throhs got this update.
•	Pokébots had their basic mechanics changed to be less resource intensive and to act more like Pokémon.
•	Engineer, Jailbreaker, and Upgrader have become Researcher Fields of Study
•	Expect in future updates for cybernetics to be given a similar treatment to Alchemy in Game of Throhs: 
less tied to character Classes and Features and more of a campaign-wide mechanic for creating interest-ing items and equipment. 
•	Glitch Bender has been pretty much totally remade
•	I will probably completely redo the layout/design for this book at some point.
-castfromhp