
Credits
PTU System Lead
Paradox (aka Doxy)
PTU Design Team
castfromhp, zoofman,
Data Manager
KujiUn
 
Contributors  and Consultants
Anise, Aori Radidjiu, Counterbeard, Domovoi, KainInformation Sourced From
Bulbapedia, PokémonDB
Legalese
Pokémon® is a trademark of Nintendo and does not 
sponsor, authorize or endorse Pokémon: Tabletop United. Pokémon: Tabletop United is a free use fan distribution by fans, for fans of both tabletop RPGs and Pokémon®.
Thanks to Our Community 
Thanks to everyone that has helped us in a million small ways along the way, and given us support and encouragement. And thanks to everyone else involved in creating and designing Pokémon Tabletop Adventures, without which this endeavor would have never started.
Contact Us!
Official site and blog: http://pokemontabletop.com/
Zetaboards Pokémon Tabletop forum - http://forums.Pokémontabletop.com/index/
Doxy’s personal email: i.climb.clouds@gmail.com
/tg/ - Traditional Games 
#PokémonTabletop on the Rizon IRC network at irc.rizon.netArtwork
We’ve used artwork from all over the Internet in PTU. If you see your art here and wish to have 
it removed, contact us at the forums below. 
Artists: meiti, ruun, azuma yukihiko, morino hon, ibui matsumoto, doomdesireking, rita (56yellow), 貝柱 (from pixiv), Delano-Laramie, malta (redmini), merlusa, homura subaru, yui (kari), Y ou (Roka), どむ(from pixiv), Re:D.summer, shuri (84k), mato, Sa-Dai, hakuna158, Kuri-chan, Anpolly/アンポリー, MTC-Studios, shaun healey, arkeis-Pokémon, bergamind, yorujisa yuuto,  wadani hitonori, yomo (ym), reirou (re16ko89), arugeri, rebusalpa, いもーす (from pixiv), きんとら@しばらく休止 (from pixiv), 
Credits
Table of ContentsIntroductionChapter 1: Genre and Setting
So you wanna run a fantasy campaign? .............. 5
High or Low Fantasy? ........................................ 5
Just How Supernatural Are Things? ................ 7
Translating Pokémon Setting Basics to Fantasy . 8
Poké balls  ............................................................ 8
Pokémon Storage ............................................... 8
Pokémon Centers ............................................... 9
The Pokédex ....................................................... 9
TM’s and HM’s ................................................... 10
Mega Evolution .................................................. 10
Flavors of Fantasy ................................................... 11
Age of Discovery ................................................ 11
Steampunk and Tribal Fantasy ......................... 12
Arabian Nights ................................................... 13
Chivalric Romance ............................................ 15
Dungeon Fantasy ............................................... 16
Sengoku Jidai ...................................................... 17
Urban Fantasy .................................................... 19
Wuxia .................................................................. 20
The Supernatural and Metaphysics ...................... 22
The Nature of Types and Pokémon ................. 22
Supernatural Power Sources ............................. 23
Supernatural Phenomena and Magic .............. 23
Example Systems  ............................................... 25
Elemental Anima, a Pokémon Metaphysics ... 27
Fantasy Pokémon Variants .................................... 31
Chapter 2: Alchemy and Gear
Better Living Through Alchemy .......................... 37
A Method to the Madness ................................ 38
Handling Alchemy as a Game Master ............. 39
Example Alchemized Items .............................. 41
Example Legendary Alchemy Items ................ 43
Arcane Weapons ..................................................... 44
Novice Arcane Weapon Moves ........................ 44
Expert Arcane Weapon Moves ........................ 45
Chapter 3: Trainer Classes
General Trainer Edges ........................................... 47
General Trainer Features ....................................... 47
Berserker ................................................................. 48
Rune Master ............................................................ 50
Arcanist  ................................................................... 53
Rank 1 Power Manipulations ........................... 55
Rank 2 Power Manipulations  .......................... 55
Fortress  .................................................................... 56
Marksman  ............................................................... 58
Skirmisher ............................................................... 60
Bug Elementalist: Swarmlord ............................... 62
Dark Elementalist: Shade Caller .......................... 64
Dragon Elementalist: Herald of Pride ................. 66
Electric Elementalist: Spark Master ..................... 68
Fairy Elementalist: Glamour Weaver .................. 70Fire Elementalist: Fire Bringer ............................. 72
Flying Elementalist: Wind Runner ...................... 74
Ghost Elementalist: Apparition ............................ 76
Grass Elementalist: Druid ..................................... 78
Ground Elementalist: Earth Shaker ..................... 80
Ice Elementalist: Frost Touched ........................... 82
Normal Elementalist: Prism ................................. 84
Poison Elementalist: Miasmic .............................. 86
Rock Elementalist: Stone Warrior ........................ 88
Steel Elementalist: Steelheart ................................ 90
Water Elementalist: Maelstrom ............................ 92
Chapter 4: Campaign Settings
How to Use These Settings .................................... 94
Six Duchies ............................................................. 95
Technology and Setting Basics ......................... 97
The Land of Ardairslen ..................................... 102
Trainer Creation ................................................. 105
Building a Six Duchies Campaign ................... 105
Campaign Hooks ............................................... 105
Visiwa: the Eastern Isles ........................................ 108
The Wilds and Setting Basics ........................... 110
The Eastern Isles ................................................ 114
Trainer Creation ................................................. 120
Building a Visiwan Campaign ......................... 120
Plot Hooks .......................................................... 120Table of Contents
Introduction
Game of Throhs is the official Pokémon Tabletop United guidebook for creating and running fantasy campaigns 
or introducing fantasy elements into any sort of PTU Campaign.  Not every fantasy campaign will benefit from using all of the content of this book, but GMs are recommended to pick and choose elements they like to create their own campaign world.  Treat the book as a toolkit.
Chapter 1 outlines a wide variety of fantasy sub-genres and how they can be used with Pokémon.  There’s a very 
large difference between a campaign about Poké Vikings and their travels and a modern era campaign about a hidden school for Psychics, and their assumptions on a setting as a whole.  Y ou’ll also find expanded details about topics that often get back seated in normal PTU games, such as the nature of supernatural powers and how Types metaphysically work.  Also included will be details on how to implement Pokémon capture, storage, and treat-
ment in settings with lower tech levels.
Chapter 2 is dedicated to gear and equipment.  In particular, this Chapter discusses how to go about creating items 
that have magical properties.  It also includes advice on how to manage these items for GMs.  
Chapter 3 introduces a slew of Fantasy themed Trainer options, including the Berserker, Rune Master, Weapon 
Specialist, and Elementalist Classes.  
Chapter 4 contains sample settings and campaign ideas to help GMs get started.  Each campaign concept comes 
with a detailed setting description, several plot-hooks, and in some cases, optional rules for use in that campaign.  

Genre and Setting5
Chapter 1: Genre and 
Setting
By now you’ve likely looked over the core book, and maybe Do Porygon Dream of Mareep or Blessed and the 
Damned, and you feel you’re ready to take on a game that’s more than just your modern day travel through a Re-
gion, collecting Badges and defeating a Team.  Y ou’ve decided your next game will visit another time in history, or an ancient mythology,  a completely alien, fantasy world, or maybe just Hogwarts for Pokémon Trainers in a world where Trainer society is completely hidden from the masses sounds really rad to you.  Either way, you got a few questions you have to get answers for before we really get to the meat and potatoes.So you wanna run a fantasy campaign?
High or Low Fantasy?
Fantasy has a lot of variations and flavors and we’ll try to discuss as many as we can in this chapter.  The divide between high and low fantasy is the broadest of these flavors, and is very similar to the divide between hard and soft sci-fi.
High Fantasy is probably the first thing you think about 
when the Fantasy genre comes up.  It is characterized by supernatural struggles between good and evil, fantastic elements such as non-human races and rampant use of magic, and epic sagas.  This type of fantasy usually takes place on a world that isn’t Earth, but might resemble Earth.  When it does take place on Earth, there is a very hard divide between the supernatural and the mundane, and the two do not interact with each other in great de-tail. This brand of Fantasy is also commonly known as being Tolkienesque, as J.R.R. Tolkien is often credited as popularizing the genre with his The Hobbit  and The  Lord 
of the Rings .  C.S. Lewis’s The Chronicles of Narnia and 
J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter also embody this brand of fantasy; it’s the more common type of fantasy in books, movies, videogames and comics.  Obviously, Dungeons and Dragons would fall under this category.
Low Fantasy, on the other hand, is a lot harder to put a fin-
ger on.  The term was originally coined to describe a brand of fantasy that not only takes place on Earth, but features how the supernatural interacts with the mundane as a 
Genre and Setting6central theme.  It has taken on a second variation over 
the last couple of years to also refer to a brand of fan-tasy where the fantastic elements are deemphasized in favor of a more gritty portrayal of human conflict.  This has caused the genre to sometimes get called ‘Urban Fantasy’ or ‘Dark Fantasy’ , depending on the work be-ing referred to.  The works of Stephen King, such as It , 
The Shining , and Salem’s Lot,  as well as H.P . ’s Lovecraft’s 
works would go under this variation, as well as George R.R. Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire, Robert E. How-
ard’s Conan the Barbarian,  and Kentaro Miura’s Berserk.  White Wolf ’s World of Darkness  games are also 
what you can consider 
Low Fantasy.
What’s this imply for 
Pokémon?  Not entirely 
much, honestly!  Pokémon 
as a franchise has gone back 
and forth time and time again 
on what type of Fantasy it slants 
towards.  While it has over time 
been creeping toward High Fan-tasy with the prominence of 
Aura, Psionics, Magic, and Godly Legendaries with each iteration, 
it’s a very loosely defined dial.  
What is safe to assume is the 
world of Pokémon is an alter -
nate reality of Earth, and the 
supernatural does exist.  How 
prominent that supernatural 
force is, or how the people and 
Pokémon of the world react to it 
is not entirely consistent with 
the franchise as a whole.  Since Pokémon, at its roots, 
is already an Urban Fantasy 
setting, a lot of the ground-
work has already been done for you 
as a GM when putting together a fantasy 
game.  
The impact of the choice between a High and Low Fan-tasy feel will mostly be felt on how the world interacts with both Pokémon and humans with Supernatural power; the response people have to discovering some-one is a Telekinetic is going to be treated is going to be drastically different based on what one you choose.  If you are looking to make a setting where the supernat-ural is rare, feared and misunderstood, Low Fantasy might be more appropriate for you.  If you’re looking to create a world full of wizards and wonder, High Fantasy would work better.  The important part here is you and your players should have a shared understanding on the general feel the game is going for, and the Low vs High label can be very helpful for that.
Genre and Setting7When one thinks Fantasy, what often first comes to 
mind is a historical setting where magical innovations have replaced technology - but this does not necessarily have to be the case.  Even the basic Pokémon setting portrays a world where mystical powers and high tech devices coexist, and would likely continue to in the fu-ture.  
Here are some questions you should ask yourself about 
your setting:
•	Who battles Pokémon in your setting?  Is it a priv-
ilege to be a Trainer, or a common occurrence?  What sorts of jobs or tasks are Pokémon trusted with?  Where do they live? How do humans care for and interact with them in the wild?
•	How easy is it to travel in your setting?  Are settle-ments completely isolated, or are there common trade routes?  How do people use these routes?  Are there vehicles that might assist their travels?
•	How sophisticated the study of medicine in your setting?  Do people understand what germs and vi-ruses are and how to handle them?  What’s the aver -
age life expectancy for humans, and what are com-mon medical causes of death?
•	How advanced are the tools Trainers use?  Do Poké balls exist?  What about Apricorn balls?  Who makes them, and how common are they? 
•	To what extent have Pokémon replaced technolog-ical advancements?  Do computers exist?  What about tools that run on a power source, like electric-ity, steam, magical energies, or pure girl love?
•	How common and understood are Psychics, Ele-mentalists, Aura Users and other humans with Su-pernatural powers?  Are they feared or respected?  Are these powers one is born with, or can they be taught over time?  Where do these powers originate from?
•	What about the types of weapons that exist in your setting?  Are they mundane?  Are there legendary relics of power out in the world?  Can you commis-sion a blacksmith to forge a badass fire sword?
•	Are there races other than Humans in your setting?  How do they interact with Humans, or Pokémon for that matter?  How integrated are they into Human society?  
•	What other supernatural elements exist in your set-ting that are not present in Pokémon?  Are there actual ghosts and spirits as well as Ghost Type Pokémon?  How do they differ from the ‘undead’?  Is there an afterlife?
•	Do Gods exist?  If they do, are they Pokémon, or entities beyond human comprehension?  How in-volved are they with the world as a whole?  Are they worshiped, revered, or feared?
We’ll be discussing these questions as we go and provide you with tools and ideas to better answer them yourself!
Just How Supernatural Are Things?

Genre and Setting8Poké ballsPokémon has a number of distinctive technologies that make the world what it is.  Not only are fans familiar with 
these elements but many of them expect them to exist in some capacity, but not having them in a setting would be dificult to work with.  In a fantasy game that takes place in a time period near modern times, this section won’t be entirely relevant.  In a setting more removed from modern times, this section will help you handle the lack of these technologies in your setting.Translating Pokémon Setting Basics to Fantasy
Okay, so let’s start with the 800 pound Slaking in the room: Poké Balls.  Poké Balls are the single most de-fining piece of technology for the Pokémon universe, and thus potential players for your campaign will likely be curious about how they’ll be treated differently in a fantasy setting - especially since most fantasy games just won’t have the technology to produce these devices.  
Consider the following:
•	Pokémon are themselves inherently unstable crea-tures. Canonically when they evolve, they turn into energy forms temporarily as their bodies shift and change. Poké Balls may artificially induce such a state using the same mechanisms that the Pokémon uses naturally, except this state is sustained and kept in stasis in a Poké Ball by the device instead of changing the Pokémon’s material form.  Even if your setting does not have Poké Balls, per say, per -
haps there are devices that induce a similar state.
•	Apricorn plants are perhaps the easiest way of intro-ducing this concept.  Something about these plants, be it arcane or scientific in nature, allows them to be crafted into devices that can put a Pokémon in stasis.  
•	Along with this train of thought, maybe people thought of other means of capture than Apricorn or Poké Balls. Examples of this include a mirror that entraps ghosts, a talisman on a pouch of glass beads that summons the creature within whenever a bead is smashed against the ground, or a family of rituals that are used to bind and summon Pokémon.  The genre of fantasy you are working with may very well have tropes such as these that already fit the func-tion of a Poké Ball.
•	Poké Balls include a feature that makes them unus-able on already Captured Pokémon.  Is this some-thing that your setting’s version of the Poké Ball mimics, and if so, how?  Does Capture change a Pokémon somehow?  What’s special about Snag Balls that makes this possible?
•	What happens when a capture device is broken in your setting? Does it simply fail to maintain the Pokémon’s energy form and thus release it when the device breaks? Or does the energy conversion pro-cess work in such a way that breaking the device ir -
reversibly would kill the Pokémon contained inside instead?
•	Is the development of Poké Balls or other capture devices something you wish to explore as a plot point?  Maybe it was a challenge for scientists to find a way to apply this process to sentient life without killing it. This could make for a bit of gruesome his-tory for the PCs to dig up, or maybe the process is still ongoing and the campaign doesn’t have work-ing Poké Balls - yet. Will the players stand by and watch this happen so they can gain from the con-venience of this technology, or will they intervene and stop the experiments, even if it means they will never get Poké Balls?
•	Poké Balls don’t work on humans, but why? This is less applicable of a question if your capture devices work more like summoning devices than capture ones, but if devices such as Apricorn Balls do exist then the question arises of whether or not it works 
Pokémon Storage
This is what makes it feasible to ‘catch em all’ in the Pokémon universe. The sheer logistical issues behind storing and transporting dozens or even hundreds of Pokémon in Poké Balls would stop all but the most well-connected and resourceful Trainers from ever considering attempting to catch more than a handful of Pokémon otherwise.
The thing is, in a fantasy setting...well, this whole con-
cept goes right out the window!  So what do you do to compensate?  Take a step back and think about what the 
Genre and Setting9PC Storage system really is; it’s a large, international net-
work that allows Trainers to transport their Pokémon between any two PC Storage terminals in the network.  It also keeps them stored safely until they are needed.
This framework can be replicated and explained in a 
fantasy system through more arcane manners.  Perhaps there is a widely practiced means of ritually summoning and storing a Poké Ball via a magical network, or that a rather influential group of mages has set up a ‘pocket dimension Poké Bank’ that Trainers can access through their countless branch offices throughout the world.  We won’t go too into detail on the whys and hows of these, as they are mostly examples - the takeaway should be that the convenience of the internet could simply be re-placed with magic.
On the other hand, this might be an intentional draw-
back of your setting - that Poké Balls (or Pokémon themselves if your setting doesn’t have capture devices) must be physically stored and delivered from destina-tion to destination.  Physical transportation and storage comes with many complications though and this direc-tion might not be very appropriate for a setting with high amounts of travel.  On the other hand, it could be a very interesting dynamic to a setting that is more cen-tral to a small number of settlements, as the PC’s would have pretty regular interactions with the Pokémon care-takers.
Also consider what happens when a Trainer carries 
more than 6 Pokémon, or captures a 7th.  Maybe your setting doesn’t enforce a cap of 6.  If it does, and you went with a more physical storage approach, perhaps the capture devices your Trainers use have a common power source, and it caps at 6 active devices at a time; this device can only be adjusted at very particular loca-tions (usually in a settlement), and so even if they carry more than 6 Pokémon with them, only their active 6 can be released.  If you went with a more arcane approach, perhaps the capture devices are inscribed with a certain magic that allows their bonded Trainer to only handle 6 at a time, and the 7th is automatically teleported away.
Pokémon Centers
Pokémon Centers, far as modern medicine is con-cerned, are already magical. Treatment is always free, all but the most grievous injuries can be healed in under a day, and they are easily available in any civi-lized place, providing services in addition to medical treatment, such as facilitating Pokémon trades.
While you might not have actual hospitals or Pokémon 
Centers in your setting, you should include some location where the Players can have their Pokémon and their own injuries taken care of for free.  Pokémon Tabletop United works under the assumption such fa-cilities exist, and removing them entirely will just make things miserable for your Players.  
Luckily, since what Pokémon Centers do is already mi-
raculous, you really don’t have much work to be done.  Maybe instead of Pokémon Centers they visit the local church to get care from the clerics who work there, or they visit the local medicine man, or apothecary for treatment.  In the end, what these facilities are should just match the fluff of your setting, but they should exist.
The other big thing Pokémon Centers do is facilitate 
Pokémon Trades.  In the base setting, this is largely tied to the same network that Pokémon are stored on.  As such, it would make sense that the same services that handle the storage and transportation of Pokémon in your setting should also handle trading. 
The Pokédex
The Pokédex has historically been a Trainer’s identi-fication card, Pokémon bestiary, and a way to register their ownership of a Pokémon.  While it might not be appropriate for such an item to exist in every fantasy setting, it’s a relatively easy one to describe as a magi-cal tome that is bound to its owner.  Trainers could use these to look up information on Pokémon, keep track of the Pokémon they’ve captured, and also to help fa-cilitate the Trade of Pokémon.  Perhaps all Pokémon trades must be notarized by a third party, and this is done through each Trainer’s Pokénomicon.  Some other ways you could describe the Pokédex in a fantasy set-ting could be as an ancient relic from a long lost age, magical eyewear that functions much like Google Glass would, or a mentoring spirit that follows, observes, and handles these tasks for the Trainer. 
Genre and Setting10TM’s and HM’s
The core PTU book already contains recommendations 
on how a GM can make TMs fit their setting.  As such we won’t go into too much detail here and simply list a few recommendations for fantasy settings: 
•	TMs might be a reagent to a magical ceremony to 
impart a Pokémon with the knowledge of how to perform a new Move.
•	TMs might be enchanted tattoos or body art that allow a Pokémon to use a Move that it previously could not.
•	TMs might be a drug that sends a Pokémon on a spirit quest where they undergo a trial that teaches them how to perform a new Move.
•	Rather than a syringe, TMs are specially brewed po-tions that have the same effect the syringe would.
Keep in mind that TMs are typically one-time use, so whatever idea you do settle on should be something that is consumed or rendered inert by the procedure.Mega Evolution
Mega Evolution is pretty easy to explain in a fantasy set-ting since it is usually attributed to a mystical aspect of the source material.  That doesn’t mean you can’t spice them up a little, though!
Alchemical Stones: Maybe Megastones are the product 
of alchemical genius!  The highly volatile stones, when paired with an artifact that can resonate with them (such as a Mega Ring), can induce a temporary boost in power for a Pokémon.
Divine Blessings: Perhaps Megastones are a divine gift!  
The ability for a Pokémon to transcend from their mor -
tal forms into a more powerful, and slightly divine enti-ty is something only heavens can bestow - and never for longer than it needs be.
Enlightenment: In a more Eastern setting, Mega Evo-
lution might be the result of Trainer and Pokémon mas-
tering their inner chi and reaching enlightenment.  This state of perfect harmony manifests as a Pokémon taking on a new form, if only for a short period of time.

Genre and Setting11Flavors of Fantasy
Keep those questions we asked at the beginning of this chapter in mind, because this section is going to revisit 
them when expanding on some common Fantasy genres and how you can apply them to a Pokémon Tabletop United campaign.
Age of Discovery
The Age of Discovery was a time period between the 1400’s and the 1800’s where European powers such as Portugal, Spain, France, and Britain began to rapidly expand their empires and establish colonies across the globe.  Fantasy works that take place in this period put a large emphasis on charting the unknown, big flashy high seas battles, conflicts between mystical, indigenous tribes and European explorers, and yes, pirates.  This sub-genre also usually includes exotic isles, glamorous and shanty port towns, and larger than life heroes and villains.  Playing the “bad guys” is also highly valued in this sub-genre, as romanticized pirates and privateers are a large focus of it.
Given this was an actual era in Earth’s history, it tends 
to gravitate more toward Low Fantasy, drawing a lot of inspiration and ideas from the current events of that era and the various cultures that contributed to it; Dis-ney’s Pirates of the Caribbean is a prime example of this.  That said, there are also quite a few High Fantasy takes on this genre as well, such as Eiichiro Oda’s One Piece,  which feature high seas action and exploration in 
a completely alien world.  The technology level tends to be consistent with that of Earth between the 1400’s and 1800’s, but more fantasy heavy settings might also feature some steampunk elements.  
The mystical side of this setting varies widely, ranging 
from highly historical and mundane to highly romanti-cized and arcane.  Given the focus on this sub-genre is more on the action and exploration, supernatural ele-ments are usually there to help move the story along or make things cooler.  Curses, magical relics, ghost ships and various schools and origins of magic mesh right in with this sub-genre.  Hunting for lost treasures is also a big focus of this sub-genre, and many of these treasures are going to have some myths and superstitions around them!Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Black powder weapons, Galleons, Curses and Dark Magics, Enchanted Relics, Gods and DemonsMain Themes: Adventure and Discovery, High Action, Epic Heroism, Treasure HuntingExamples: Assassin’s Creed: Black Flag, Etrian Odyssey, 
Pirates of the Caribbean, One Piece, Treasure Island 
How do Pokémon Fit in?
Pokémon easily fit into this sub-genre on two fronts.  On one, they provide interesting and compelling wild-life for the players to encounter in the exotic locales of the setting.  This includes the oceans themselves as well; sea monsters and krakens are a staple of this sub-genre! They also provide a very convenient and interesting twist for populating the crew of a ship.  Think of the various tasks and duties that ship hands are responsible for, and how Pokémon would have fit into that.
How to Handle…
Poké Balls:  Given the various advancements in mar -
itime travel during this era, it is very feasible for Poké Balls or Apricorn Balls to have been invented during this time period.  Such devices would likely be arcane in nature, and likely a recent development picked up from experimenting with tribal magics and modern technol-ogy.  
The PC Storage System: This one is extremely easy to 
handle in this sub-genre, as your players will almost certainly have access to a ship:  Extra Pokémon just stay with the ship!  If you also wish to have newly cap-tured Pokémon teleported away, one way to approach that could be that members of a crew might be expected to ‘bind’ their service to the vessel.  This mystical oath causes newly captured Pokémon to be transported safe-ly to the vessel.
Genre and Setting12Pokémon Centers:  Any seafaring vessel surely has a 
doctor and medical supplies on board, which makes 
treating staying aboard a ship as staying at a Pokémon 
center make plenty of sense.  Apothecaries and tribal 
medicines would also be relevant, especially when trav-
eling ashore.
TMs and HMs: Given the technology level of the sub-
genre, TMs and HMs would likely take on abnormal 
forms : such as potions, tattoos, mystical drugs and 
magical relics.  
As a GM How Should I Prepare?
Map out the isles and seas your players will be sailing 
through, since this will help them understand the scale of what is and isn’t explored out there.  Prepare rivaling factions and uncharted isles in a way that your players have some variety with who they choose to ally with or fight against, and that they can travel as they need or please.
Steampunk and Tribal Fantasy
There are two other subgenres of Fantasy that relate pretty closely to the Age of Discovery: Steampunk, and Tribal Fantasy.  As such we’ll give a brief synopsis of both of these here.  
Steampunk
Steampunk is a fantasy genre that is often inspired by the industrial revolution in Western society during the 19th century. Steampunk works are often set in an alternative history of the British Victorian era or American “Wild West” , or in a fantasy world that employs steam power. Steampunk perhaps most recognizably  features anach-ronistic technologies or retro-futuristic inventions as people in the 19th century might have envisioned them, and is likewise rooted in the era’s perspective on fash-ion, culture, architectural style, and art.  
That said, this genre and shift in technology is not just 
to make the world quirkier.  Steampunk often takes place right on the end of the Age of Discovery, as col-onization starts to bubble and the industrial revolution begins.  During this time period there was a major shift in cultural values due to rapid advancements in tech-nology, travel and the exchange of information.  When applied to the world of Pokémon, the big ques-tion that comes to mind is how did society at large shift when it comes to their opinions on how Pokémon should be handled?  Did the interest in Pokémon di-minish as technology hit a stride, or did it become more of a sport during this era?  How did the feats Pokémon are capable of impact the steam and magic powered in-ventions of this era?  
Keep these questions in mind when you go about craft-
ing a Steampunk setting, and for some further inspira-tion, check out the following : Arcanum: Of Steamworks 
and Magick Obscura, Last Exile, Steamboy, Full Metal Alchemist, Bioshock Infinite
Tribal Fantasy
Another big aspect of the Age of Discovery is the first meeting between the indigenous  populations of  North and South America, and the exploring Europeans.  While history on Earth played out rather poorly for these civilizations, their legacy and stories still live on.  Each of these tribes had their own mythologies, mysti-cal customs and legacies, and collectively we call these stories Tribal Fantasy.  
In a Tribal Fantasy setting, technology is often sent 
straight to the stone or bronze age, but the relevance of mysticism and magical elements shoots right up.  These settings are representative of not only the tribes of North and South America, but the early foundations of many other cultures as well.  Shamanism and animism were very commonly practiced throughout the world, and how these beliefs tie to Pokémon is surprisingly to-the-point.  We highlight much of this in the Anima Metaphysics later in this chapter.  
Whether you are looking to run a game where the play-
ers are members of an indigenous tribe, or just looking to flesh out the society of a tribe that is featured in an Age of Discovery or Steampunk game, keep in mind that you have literally hundreds of real world examples of how these societies functioned and what their sha-manistic practices encompassed.
Genre and Setting13Arabian Nights
Most fantasy inspired by the Middle East is set in what’s 
loosely called the ‘Islamic Golden Age’ , a time peri-od roughly corresponding with the European Middle Ages (c.780 AD - c.1258 AD) during which the Muslim world experienced a flourishing of the arts and sciences as its rulers strove to collect and preserve all the world’s knowledge. 
During this time period, works of the past and from as 
far away as Greece and India were preserved and trans-lated into Arabic, and government-funded scholars pi-oneered revolutions in mathematics, physics, biology, and chemistry - many things that we take for granted, like algebra, coffee, guitars, and astronomy, were devel-oped during this time period! 
Not only did culture flourish during the Islamic Golden 
Age, but trade and government did too. The caliphs of the age encouraged freedom of speech and belief, and people from all walks of life and all religions could as-pire to a life of civil service. Routes across both land and sea stretched from Spain to China, and cities like Bagh-dad and Cairo became major centers of both trade and culture. Of course, most games set in this era will focus less on what happened in the real world and more on what hap-pened in the stories and fables of the time, the most fa-mous of which are the One Thousand and One Nights - stories of bold thieves, magic carpets, wise (or not so wise) sultans, and beautiful princesses, where faith and a quick mind is all it takes for even a street rat to make their fortune. 
A game might be about recovering the lost treasures of 
the great Pokémon Master Suleiman, he who managed to tame one of every species under the heavens and bid them do as he commanded, or about stopping the sul-tan’s evil grand vizier from summoning and binding Missingno so that he can take over the kingdom. In a world of larger than life heroes and terrifying villains, the skies are (quite literally) the limit! That’s not to say that you can only run high fantasy games in a Middle Eastern setting - low fantasy games more grounded in the realities of the age are just as possible! Perhaps your players are a caravan of trad-ers, traveling the Silk Road to make their fortunes and avoiding curses and mischievous spirits. Perhaps they are researchers in Baghdad, collecting Pokémon to be recorded in the sultan’s Grand Book of All Creatures. They could even be thieves, banding together to steal a rich merchant’s treasure - or, perhaps, the heart of his first-born child. Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Alche-my, Medicine and Science, Spirits and Mirages, Magical Beasts  Main Themes: Adventure, Exploration, Romance, Dis-covery, Deserts and VoyagesExamples: One Thousand and One Nights, Aladdin, The 
Voyage of Sinbad, The Thief and the Cobbler 
How do Pokémon Fit In?
The biggest question for a setting like this would proba-bly be ‘what ARE Pokémon in this game, anyway?’ Are they like djinn, spirits placed in this world by a high-er power to serve humans? Are they embodiments of natural phenomenon, like mirages and dust devils? Are they actual animals that just happen to be able to breathe fire? While it won’t make much of a difference mechanically, of course, how your players - and your NPCs - see Pokémon will go a long way in establish-ing the feel of the campaign. Beyond that, you’ll want to consider what species would be readily available in a mostly single-climate setting, and how players might get their hands on Pokémon they want that aren’t so common (say, Water types). 
 
How to Handle...
Poké  Balls: The easiest way to handle this, and maybe 
the best for lower-fantasy games, would be to simply 
have Poke Balls be a recent invention, one of the Sul-tan’s scholars’ latest wonders. For higher fantasy games, however, consider having Pokémon be bound to objects - everyone knows the story of the genie sealed in the lamp, but there are also stories of spirits bound to rings, flutes, and magical seals. Be creative! 
Genre and Setting14PC Storage: A travel-heavy game could easily have 
some sort of central caravan that Pokémon return to 
when captured; a higher fantasy game could give each 
player a magical grimoire that serves as both Pokedex 
and storage. For games based in a single city or small 
area, have your PCs establish a base of operations, per -
haps with NPCs to care for their extra Pokémon when 
they’re away.
 
Pokémon Centers: In a time of flourishing science and 
great strides in medicine, it shouldn’t be too hard to 
find a doctor or healer pretty much anywhere. Whether 
they’re actually competent, on the other hand... While 
you shouldn’t make your players jump through hoops 
to get their Pokémon healed without incident, intro-ducing a scholar working on more radical medicine 
would be a great way to justify things like type-shifting, 
if you should need to.
 
As a GM, How Should I Prepare?
Look through the One Thousand and One Nights, most 
importantly! Almost every trope concerning Middle Eastern fantasy originates from here, so it’s really the best place to start.  Y ou should also consider what angle you want your game to far as treasure hunting, traveling and trading, and thieving go.  There was a lot going on in this time period, and in its works of fiction, so some focus might be required.

Genre and Setting15Chivalric Romance
Traditionally, Chivalric Romance describes a style of 
prose that was popular in the aristocratic circles of early modern Europe.   These stories often told of the mar -
vel-filled adventures of a knight-errant who goes on a quest. These works also drew on themes of romance, but with ironic, satiric or burlesque intent. Many of these tales reworked legends, fairy tales, and history itself to better suit these themes, but by 1600 these were out of fashion, and Miguel de Cervantes famously burlesqued them in his novel Don Quixote . 
Still, the modern image of “medieval” is more influ-enced by the romance than by any other medieval genre, and the word medieval evokes knights, distressed damsels, dragons, and other romantic tropes.  As such, we use this term as a catch-all for Low Fantasy settings that take place in an Europe-inspired setting and put more emphasis on the human elements and histori-cal mythology.  These settings also usually put a large emphasis on the politics, with dramatic and meaning-ful outcomes being reached by the pen just as often as the sword.  While all the examples listed might be what you would consider Dark Fantasy, we list them here be-cause many of the motifs and themes found in them are the same you’ d expect to find in a Chivalric Romance Pokémon setting.
Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Castles 
and Siege Warfare, Mounted Calvary, The Fae, Wizards and Witches, Dragons, Demons and MonstersMain Themes: Warfare, Politics, Economics, Feudal-ism, Chivalry, Adventure, RomanceExamples: Arthurian Legend, A Song of Ice and Fire, 
Berserk, Beowulf, The Canterbury Tales, Irish and Celtic Mythology, Vinland Saga
How do Pokémon Fit In?
Given that these stories often referred back to mytholo-gy and legends of old,  Pokémon don’t have much issue slipping in as both a replacement to mundane animals, like swapping out horses for Rapidashes, and as fantas-tical critters. Fairies also play a large role in this genre, so Fairy Pokémon are naturally a centerpiece of the mystical elements of these settings. This holds true for the demons, monsters and dragons in these settings too, which are often intelligent enough to have their own political or economic agendas that they wish to prog-ress, just like the humans.   
How to Handle...
Poké Balls: Apricorn Balls are the go to solution, and are likely made by wizards or craftsmen who have enlisted the help of mischievous fairies.  They are likely scarce and only affordable by the upper class.  Knights-errants and adventurers who have gotten ahold of them likely either did someone a great favor, or owe someone one.  
The PC Storage System: Y our players might have a 
home fort where they keep surplus Pokémon, but keeping a large roster and swapping them out con-stantly will likely be infeasible.  Y ou may wish to warn your players that a smaller and more focused roster of Pokémon are more appropriate for campaigns of this genre. 
Pokémon Centers: Apothecaries, hedge wizards and 
herbalists, clerics and temples, and actual wizards all make sensible alternatives to Pokémon Centers in Chivalric settings.  Priest and priestesses in a setting in this genre are likely knowledgeable in first aid, and supernatural healing through magic or herbal means is also appropriate.
TMs and HMs: A wizard did it.  No, really! TMs and 
HMs would likely have supernatural sources, either from an experienced mage or from a powerful Fae or spiritual entity.  It would very unlikely be something you purchase and use at a later date and more be an arcane ritual that is performed on your Pokémon to teach them a Move.
As a GM, How Should I Prepare?
Plan out your Region and the various factions that gov-ern it.  Find out which ones are allies and enemies.  Map out a portion of your Region where powerful Pokémon or a Fae Covenant control.  Think of any dominant re-ligions or cults in your Region.  And finally, figure out what the quest your Player Characters will be on is.  Their quest will be the most critical aspect of the game, but the Player Characters are not the center of your set-ting; they are but a piece of it.
Genre and Setting16Dungeon Fantasy
Chances are, if you’re reading this, you’re at least pass-
ingly familiar with the concept of Dungeon Fantasy. Popularized by Gary Gygax and his Dungeons and Dragons, this sub-genre descended from war-gaming and lead to the formation of modern tabletop roleplay-ing. 
Usually centered around swords and sorcery in pseu-
do-European fantasy settings (more often than not with a little borrowed ‘inspiration’ from a certain J.R.R. Tolk-ien), Dungeon Fantasy focuses on adventurers scouring the realm to right wrongs and make coin. Slay the drag-on, defeat the lich, and spend all your earnings from the dangerous Tomb of Horrible Spiky Things on a dozen flagons of the innkeeper’s best mead. It goes without saying that this sub-genre is heavily, heavily High Fantasy in most depictions, though its incarnations are as myriad as the imaginations of role-players the world over. Technology level can vary heav-ily, from Middle Age kingdoms full of dirt-encrusted, malnourished peasants, to more fantastical applications of industrial age technology in the form of formidable airships powered by steam engines, or even more fu-turistic technology heavily laced with the setting’s mag-ic. Similarly, the amount of supernatural influence can vary heavily, from more gritty ‘no-magic’ campaigns to the most fantastical settings imaginable. All in all, it’s very hard to do dungeon fantasy ‘wrong’ . Adventure, delving, loot, and a good time had by all are all you need. Look to the past for inspiration, but it’s YOU, the players and the GMs out there, who make this sub-genre what it is. Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Various, often low tech with powerful practitioners of magic and fantastical beasts breaking up the more mundane.Main Themes: Adventure, Swords and Sorcery, Epic Battles between Good and Evil or anything in-between, and almost anything else you could think of.Examples: Dungeons and Dragons, Dragon Quest , Wiz-
ardry,  Final Fantasy I, The HobbitHow do Pokémon fit in?
Pokémon fit extremely naturally into this type of set-ting, as fantastical monsters lurk in almost every gloomy wood, dark cave or abandoned castle. Even in tradition-al tabletop games, the most martial-oriented fighters will favor utilizing magic equipment against their foes to compete with their increasingly outlandish supernat-ural powers. It might also be said, then, that in a world of Pokémon, adventurers are wont to train some of the realm’s beasties to gain a similar edge. It may be difficult for the average Joe to get much beyond a Miltank or a Mareep, but the players, who are almost certainly play-ing as larger than life heroes, would certainly be able to form their own menageries. 
How to Handle...
Poké  Balls and PC Storage: The surprisingly brilliant 
invention of a mad wizard who wanted to find a way to keep his dangerous Ursahoots encapsuled, only for these strange spheres to be liberated by the first set of adventurers to shut him down. The blessed spheres of a church’s faith, distributed by the religious to the faithful in order to contain the savage creatures of the realm.  The ways Poké Balls and Storage could have come about are just as varied as anything in this subgenre! Pokémon Centers: Churches of major religions, inns, and hospices are all standard methods of handling heal-ing in fantasy settings. TMs and HMs: Spell scrolls that when read aloud, im-bue the knowledge of a technique into a Pokémon’s mind, or perhaps an elixir of knowledge. 
As a GM, how should I prepare?
Dungeon Fantasy tends to focus more heavily on dun-geon crawling, which can include anything from heavy amounts of encounters, to intricately detailed areas to explore, dangerous traps to overcome, and conun-drums to solve. Give yourself plenty of time each week to prepare for crunch-and-detail heavy sessions when necessary. Make encounters interesting and engaging, and don’t be afraid to litter the area with possible envi-ronmental factors that the players or their foes can use. Give things a feel of high adventure. And more than anything, have fun.
Genre and Setting17Sengoku Jidai
The Sengoku period in Japan (from the 
mid 1400’s to the beginning of the 17th century) marked an age of conflict that arose as the result of the Ashikaga sho-gunate losing its centralized influence over the rest of the country, with local lords (daimyos), clans, and religious groups gaining power and vying against each other for control of Japan. 
This period is known for these conflicts, 
the economic, social and political up-heavals the country faced, the popu-larization of trade with foreign powers, and the rise in use of early firearms. Ad-ditionally, this is also the period where most of our information about nin-ja comes from, as this was when men willing to perform tasks that the more honorable samurai would not would begin to offer their services.
Like the Age of Exploration, this is a historical period, 
and tends to be depicted with low fantasy in fiction. Where the supernatural does crop up, it tends to include elements of Shinto mythology and Japanese folklore, though other religious influences during the period in-cluded Buddhism, Taoism, and Christianity. Popularly, stories on the Sengoku period cover closer to the end of the wars, especially around the warlord Oda Nobunaga and other figures of his time. Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Match -
lock rifles, castles, Japanese folkloreMain Themes: Warfare, Unification, Politics, Econom-ics, FeudalismExamples: Pokémon Conquest, Inuyasha, Princess 
Mononoke, Nobunaga’s Ambition, Sengoku Basara, Sa-murai Warriors, Onimusha
How do Pokémon Fit In?
What might immediately spring to mind about Pokémon in this setting is that they might provide a siz-able bulk of any given army within the states, though depending on the particular species of Pokémon, one  
   
might also see stronger or rarer specimens as pets of in-
fluential lords, for sale by foreign traders, or acting as yokai for the setting (maybe Sawk and Throh are oni instead of martial arts masters). 
Pokémon Conquest  had the particular, simplistic divi-
sion of making each of the warring states drawn to a 
single Type of Pokémon, which may or may not be suit-able for a given campaign. 
How to Handle...
Poké  Balls: Apricorn Balls or Poke Balls may be rela-
tively new technologies imported by foreigners like fire-arms (the Portuguese were the ones responsible for this in real life) and would likely be severely sought after due to their ability to condense an army’s size considerably. Alternately, as outlined before, there might be more mystical talismans or mirrors with entrapped spirits, though these would be less common among strict mil-itary. PC Storage: The castle of one’s home territory (or oth-er applicable headquarters) should serve your players well as a spot for their Pokémon. Similar to the Age of Exploration suggestions, a ritual might be employed to transport recently caught Pokémon to their home castle for safekeeping.

Genre and Setting18Pokémon Centers : An army that travels without doc-
tors to heal the wounded is sure to encounter significant 
losses, so for larger-scale operations, treatment should 
be provided. For more personal treks, various temples 
or local healers may provide rest and healing for the 
wounded, perhaps even despite affiliation.
 
TMs and HMs: From enchanted paintings, to mer -
cenary training, to carefully prepared shinobi scrolls detailing stratagems, there are a number of ways that 
Pokémon could be instructed in using moves that they 
normally don’t possess.
 
As a GM, How Should I Prepare?
Whether you’re using historical Japan, Ransei, or your 
own Sengoku-ized setting, a map will help your players visualize territories and make informed tactical deci-sions. They won’t necessarily be aware of what faction is con-trolling an area at any given time (scouts can help with this), but they should at least have a strong idea of who their neighbors are and some of the more infamous names in the region. Don’t be afraid to change borders every now and then as factions gain or lose influence, but be careful not to create too much work for yourself either. 
Y ou should also decide ahead of time how to handle war 
itself - will you create your own subsystem for mass bat-tles and have the players engage the enemy commanders in a traditional Pokémon battle? Will it all be traditional battles in subsections of the field? Will you put the larg-er battles in more narrative control by describing how the battle is going, and ask for the players’ input in more commander-esque roles? The decision is up to you, but you should prioritize how to handle these things.

Genre and Setting19Urban Fantasy
Put in the most basic terms, urban fantasy is fantasy that 
heavily features cities and urban environments. Howev-er, the concept now usually refers to works with a few more specific traits. Urban fantasy works usually take place in a contemporary setting, often drawn directly from the real world but with supernatural elements lay-ered on top, and they tend towards mystery and horror in their themes and tone. 
In urban fantasy, the supernatural elements are often 
hidden from most of the world, which is said to live un-der a veil of ignorance or in a masquerade. Characters in such a story live a double life, trying to get by and deal with everyday troubles while maintaining the se-crecy of the supernatural and fighting magical threats and enemies. 
Often, this is made easier by the fact that magic and the 
occult primarily exist in Otherworlds, other planes of existence that connect to the mundane world. Still, su-pernatural investigation takes up significant time and resources, making everyday obligations like school and holding down a job difficult or impossible for the he-roes.
There is often a level of anachronism in urban fantasy 
settings. Dullahans are portrayed as mysterious bik-ers, modern sorcerers use implements and tools that wouldn’t look out of place at a Renaissance fair, and the occult society uses names and traditions from centuries ago despite having completely modern trappings other -
wise. This dissonance produces the unique feeling that many urban fantasy works have. 
Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Occult 
Underground, Modern Day Technology, Otherworlds, Extraplanar EntitiesMain Themes: Mystery and Investigation, Horror, Double LivesExamples: Shin Megami Tensei and  Persona series, 
Neverwhere, Dresden Files, Durarara!!
How do Pokémon fit in?
The first question to ask yourself when drafting up your urban fantasy setting is: does the world at large know about the existence of Pokémon? If the answer is yes, you will have to think carefully about what makes your setting urban fantasy rather than a normal mod-ern day Pokémon campaign. Perhaps Pokémon are ex-traplanar beings, invaders from beyond our realm. The world may know of them, but few are brave enough to attempt to capture, tame, and battle with them. 
If the answer is no, then you should figure out how they 
remain hidden, but you also have more leeway to de-cide what they are. Perhaps they only exist in an Other -
world which the players visit, or they are disguised with glamours to appear like normal plants and animals for everyday situations. Urban fantasy is by far one of the easiest fantasy genres to adapt to Pokémon because the very existence of Pokémon is usually crucial to the plot.
How to Handle…
Poké Balls: While it’s simple enough to use Poké Balls due to the modern setting of most urban fantasy, you can do better. Maybe Pokémon are stored like programs in a cell phone that summons them, or perhaps they have their essence pressed into Tarot Cards. It’s com-mon in urban fantasy to see either seemingly mundane modern day technology repurposed to manipulate magic or classical occult implements being used as ac-tual magical tools. 
The PC Storage System: If cell phones and computers 
are used to summon Pokémon, then it’s easy to just keep the idea of a PC Storage System, albeit one that may be run in secret rather than as a public service. 
Pokémon Centers: Medical treatment is a bit trickier 
when you’re fighting supernatural beings hidden from the rest of the world. Black market doctors who are in the know likely set up shop specifically to take advan-tage of this situation, and they may even be sponsored by supernatural investigators like the PCs. 
TMs and HMs: Magically enhanced computer pro-
grams could teach new Moves to Pokémon stored in a cell phone or computer. TMs could also be fluffed as artifacts or shards of magical power taken from an Oth-erworld. 
Genre and Setting20As a GM How Should I Prepare?
If you’re creating a world where the supernatural is 
hidden away, then you absolutely need to think about what happens if your players blow the secret wide open. It can and will happen when you are least prepared to think about the implications otherwise. Outside of that, you should prepare the major secrets 
of your setting and decide the vague roadmap for how 
your players will be drawn into and uncover them. Var -
ious factions will often have an interest in either expos-
ing or protecting these secrets, and planning them out well will practically make your plot write itself as the 
players interact with and wheel and deal with them.
Wuxia
Wuxia is a fantasy genre set in ancient China which 
centers on martial arts and the lives of wandering he-roes, called youxia. The actual time period and setting for wuxia stories can vary greatly, though honestly they are often not of particular importance because wuxia heroes tend to come from the margins of society and operate with their own code of ethics. 
Y ouxia are larger than life, often capable of taking on 
large mobs of lesser fighters such as guardsmen and common soldiers without breaking a sweat. The only true threat to a powerful martial artist is an equally skilled martial artist, which contributes to the margin-alization of youxia and their life on the fringes of soci-ety. This world of martial artists is called the jianghu, or rivers and lakes, and within it, disputes and conflicts are usually solved through combat, with formal structures based on law and order usually being ineffective. 
Among the fantastical elements present in the wuxia 
genre, the most important is the concept of qi, or the life force that martial arts master through a process called neigong and use to perform superhuman feats. 
Authors exploring the concept of qi and neigong give 
elemental qualities to certain practices of cultivating qi or manipulating it, using the five classical elements in Chinese philosophy: Fire, Water, Earth, Wood, and Metal. In a Pokémon world, it is easy to expand this to the whole list of Types, resulting in various schools of martial arts based on each Type which can be represent-ed by the Elementalists. 
Wuxia stories tend to focus on disruptions and major 
changes and upheavals within the jianghu. Tragedy strikes as a venerated leader of a martial artist society is murdered, rival pupils fall out and tear apart their  
   martial arts school in the process, or an old master seeks out pupils to pass his or her secrets onto before their death. Recurring characters are important to establish in a wuxia story, with rivals who will be fought many times over the course of a story, or romantic interests for the PCs.
Key Technologies and Supernatural Themes: Varied 
Martial Weapons, Neigong, Daoism and Other Eastern PhilosophyMain Themes: Trials of a Hero, Rivals and Mentors, High Action, Honor and RedemptionExample : The Condor Trilogy; Weapons of the Gods; 
Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon; House of Flying Dag-gers
How do Pokémon fit in?
At first, this genre may seem difficult to apply to a Pokémon, but possibilities for campaigns open up once you consider treating styles of Pokémon battle as mar -
tial arts, with their own carefully guarded secret societ-ies and passed down techniques. In a world of Pokémon, the martial arts range from techniques for personal combat such as the Martial Artist and Aura Guardian, to styles of mixed Pokémon and personal combat such as the Hunter, to pure Pokémon battlers like the Task-master. 
And of course, Fighting-Type Pokémon are already 
based on many schools of existing martial arts. The question is whether in your setting those Pokémon inspired these forms of martial arts, or whether they learned them from humans. 
How to Handle…
Poké Balls: Modern Poké Ball technology certainly wouldn’t exist yet, though Apricorn Balls are a reason-able possibility. However, consider that the themes of 
Genre and Setting21wuxia mean that Trainers may often keep their Pokémon 
outside of their balls and may carry a smaller team due to a lack of easy means to transport them from city to city like the PC Storage System in modern settings. 
Another way to handle Poké Balls is to borrow the con-
cept of a lu, or spirit register, from Daoist traditions. A lu is a record of spirits’ names who can be called on for service, using written paper talismans called fu. The concept translates easily to one’s record of their own Pokémon and fu used to call them into battle. 
The PC Storage System: Characters in a wuxia cam-
paign may have a home base of some sort, such as the 
temple for their martial artists’ society, where reserve 
Pokémon can be stored. However, this makes keeping a 
rotating team of Pokémon difficult at best and infeasible for many campaigns. Y ou may wish to warn your play-
ers that a smaller and more focused roster of Pokémon 
are more appropriate for campaigns of this genre. 
Pokémon Centers: The practice of neigong is often 
portrayed to have applications to healing, particular -
ly when making use of accupunctural pressure points.  
 
 Those who know how to navigate the social world of the 
jianghu well will probably find healers willing to treat them and their Pokémon wherever they go. 
TMs and HMs: In a world themed after wuxia stories, 
it makes much more sense to populate the world with many specialized Move Tutors than it does to have TMs and HMs be consumable items. The passing down of techniques from mentor to pupil is an important aspect of wuxia stories, and this can make seeking out TM Moves for a Pokémon much more interesting. If you do 
feel the need to use TMs as items, then it is easy enough 
to treat them as mystical scrolls that provide instruction 
and a training regimen for learning new Moves.
As a GM How Should I Prepare?
Figure out the outlines of a few secret martial arts so-
cieties and what techniques and practices they guard and teach. Y ou will also want to think carefully about each PC and their goals and desires. Set them up with intriguing and personal nemeses, as the dramatic build-up to a final showdown is the most common way to treat a basic wuxia plot arc.

Genre and Setting22The Nature of Types and Pokémon
•	Where do the 18 Pokémon Types come from in 
your world? 
•	Are they like the building blocks of the world like the classical elements in many settings, or do they play a less fundamental role in reality? 
•	Has the list of Types always been the same, or has it changed over time? What causes that change? 
•	Pokémon obviously have Types, but humans do not - why, and what does it mean to be “Typeless”? 
•	What other fundamental differences exist between humans and Pokémon?
Pokémon are essentially magical animals, so when looking to define the nature of magic in a setting, you look first to them and their most distinctive traits - the 18 elemental Types. 
The origin of the 18 Types will also feed into how su-
pernatural powers operate in your world. Did Arceus create an unchanging spectrum of Types from day one of creation? Or do the existing Types in the world ebb and flow along with the memories and thoughts of the world’s collective consciousness? Many possibilities ex-ist here that could lead to dramatic events in your cam-paign, such as introducing the creation of a new Type like Fairy midway through. 
Y ou will also need to define just what the Types are in 
your cosmology. Some schools of classical philosophy use a set of elements as the fundamental building blocks of the world, and others use them in more of a figurative way to describe processes of change. Y ou should decide whether the world is literally composed of bits of each Type, or whether the qualities that are ascribed to Type are a layer on top of the normal composition of matter and energy as we understand it. 
Given that humans lack Type, it’s easiest in most cases 
to simply say that having a Type and the effects of such are a product of a magical property all Pokémon have. If you do decide to make Types the fundamental build-ing blocks of your universe, you then need to figure out what makes humans different. Are they composed of all of the Types and thus end up Typeless due to them can-celing out? Or are they composed of some neutral 19th element? Think about what this means for humans who do wield Type-based powers like Elementalists and Psy-chics - this would seem to make them metaphysically closer to Pokémon than their mundane companions
This has implications when it comes to other differenc-
es between Trainers and Pokémon too, such as that the latter can evolve suddenly into other forms and can be contained in Poké Balls. It could be something in the na-ture of Types and why Pokémon have them that makes them susceptible to Poké Ball technology. The Supernatural and Metaphysics
Where do the Pokémon Types come from? How different are Aura Guardians, Telepaths, and other Elementalists from each other? Pokémon is by its nature fantastical, but the franchise itself does little to explore the nature and origin of supernatural abilities such as Sabrina’s psionic powers or Riley talents as an Aura Guardian. However, these very issues often come to the forefront of Fantasy genre campaigns. Magic systems, detailed metaphysics, and the unique supernatural phenomena tied to those systems often characterize popular works of fantasy, so it’s important to explore these concepts when GMing a Fantasy campaign in PTU.
While it’s best to define the nature of the supernatural and create your own system of metaphysics for your cam-
paign, we’ll provide examples and brainstorming ideas for how to handle that, including a fully fleshed out system of metaphysics that will be used in two of the sample campaign settings later in this book. Each section here will begin with a few questions you should ask yourself when thinking about the Metaphysics of your world, and then it’ll explore ways to answer some of those questions and the explanations for supernatural power that can come from that.
Genre and Setting23Supernatural Power Sources
•	What does Elemental Connection represent, and 
how is it obtained? 
•	Do the various Elemental Connections and their re-lated Feature Trees differ substantially in nature, or are they different flavors of the same kind of trait? 
•	Are supernatural powers largely in-born traits or the products of training? Both? 
•	What other sources of supernatural power exist out-side of the Type structure of Pokémon? 
•	Does supernatural power fundamentally change a person? 
As mentioned above, having supernatural power from Feature Trees tied to Elemental Connections can rep-resent a drastic change to a person, bringing them clos-er to Pokémon. What this means can vary. Perhaps the change is absolutely central to someone’s being, and their soul (or the equivalent in your setting) shows dif-ferences from that of someone who has no powers. On the other hand, an Elemental Connection may be ex-ternal, like a persistent spell or blessing that happens to latch onto someone.
The way this manifests can be different in each case, 
however. Here’s a short list of possible sources of Ele-mental Connection:•	Genetic inheritance, possibly due to a blessed or cursed bloodline
•	Birth in proximity to elemental phenomena 
•	Sudden manifestation due to exposure to elemental phenomena
•	Change induced from repeated magic rituals or consuming potions and reagents over time
•	Blessing from a Legendary Pokémon or a bargain made with them
Aura reading and Telepathy may be in-born traits in your world, while a dedication to studying herbology could be the basis of a Grass Connection and Druid-ic powers, while only those blessed by a Legendary Pokémon ever manifest a Dragon Connection and the powers of a Herald of Pride. 
On the other hand, you may decide that Elemental 
Connection is completely uniform in how it manifests in a person. It is always a genetically inherited trait, or it is only present in those who are born near powerful manifestations of a particular Type, or it is always the product of some form of dedicated study and training. 
Aside from the 18 Types, other sources of supernatural 
power could exist in your world, especially if you style your setting after a particular real life culture or draw heavily from those influences. As an example, blood as a representation of life and vitality may have magical properties in your world and be crucial to rituals like performing Type Syncs. Powerful expressions of art, such as music and story may also manifest as magic in your world, helping to explain the effects and talents of Musicians and Dancers, or giving reason to the power of Legendary Pokémon - they grow with the strength of their associated myths and legends.
Supernatural Phenomena and Magic
•	What other supernatural phenomena do you need to explain in your system? 
•	Are there places of magical power in the world or otherworlds? 
•	What about magical artifacts, enchanted items, etc? 
•	Does an afterlife exist? What is the nature of death?
•	How do these supernatural phenomena affect Pokémon and potential variant Pokémon in the set-ting? 
Primary among these concerns is that of life and death. With a Ghost Type in Pokémon, you have to be careful with how you treat the nature of death in your setting. Do people and Pokémon who die actually turn into Ghost Pokémon? If so, what do they remember, and what happens when a Ghost Type dies? If not, where do Ghost Pokémon come from, and why do they have their name? Y ou may decide that strong emotional impres-sions left upon the world by the dying become Ghost Pokémon with little or no recollection of their origin, and that the actual soul of humans and Pokémon enter a cycle of reincarnation. Or perhaps there’s a more defi-nite realm of the afterlife, perhaps with Giratina over -
seeing it like a Hades figure. 
Outside of that, you should decide how supernatural 
power manifests itself in places and things, and not just 
Genre and Setting24Pokémon and humans. If you use Types as the building 
blocks of your universe, for example, consider whether 
or not pure “elemental planes” representing the Types 
exist. And even if you treat the Types as just properties 
that Pokémon have, perhaps some locations are infused 
with the energy of a certain Type, such as the shrines 
for certain Legendary Pokémon. These locations are 
ripe for creating Type Shifted Pokémon or variants to 
refluff Pokémon that are normally tied to technologies 
too advanced for your setting - a crystalline elemental 
plane of Normal Type energies to match the Prism and 
to house a Porygon variant that travels through magical 
crystals, for example. 
This is also where you should consider some features 
of the Pokémon universe such as Giratina’s Distortion 
World, the Unown dimension, and the Dream World, 
which didn’t get a huge amount of explanation or ex-ploration. Is the Dream World just an elemental plane of Psychic energy, or is it more Type-neutral? Did the 
Unown come into being when language was created? 
And if so, what does that mean about the nature of their 
dimension? 
And of course, most fantasy settings feature magical ar -
tifacts of some sort. Aside from the power held in Ele-
mental Stones and many Held Items like Mega Stones, 
you may create other objects imbued with the properties 
of one or more Types. The next chapter on fantasy items 
will include an Alchemy system to help create equip-
ment with these traits. Y ou may decide that magical 
items may give off an Aura much like living creatures, 
and items with particular elemental strength may ex-
hibit special properties, such as a Dark Type item being 
impossible to scry upon or find with Psychic powers.

Genre and Setting25Example Systems 
These examples won’t answer all of the questions above, but they’ll give enough information to figure out how 
supernatural characters work and differentiate different supernatural Feature Trees. 
Mystic Traditions
This is probably as close as we can get to a “default” sys-tem of metaphysics for Pokémon, considering the lack of canonical Elementalist powers and the little informa-tion that is given on canonical supernatural abilities like psionics and Aura. 
Pokémon Types are not the building blocks of reality 
here but instead are just properties that Pokémon have 
and which humans can sometimes access through se-
lect means. Each manifestation of an Elemental Con-nection and its associated Feature Trees differs in origin and training. 
Despite the fact that all living things possess an Aura, 
Aura manipulation is an innate talent, and not one that someone can acquire by training or through supernat-ural accident. Y ou are either born with the potential or not, but the skill to use and control Aura as an Aura Guardian must be honed like any other. 
Psionic talent is largely the same, and considered a 
genetically inherited trait. However, there are rare in-stances where a human may come into contact with a powerful psychic phenomena, like Celebi’s time travel-ing, and gain psionic abilities as a result. In the latter case, a person may even develop strong Psychic powers without any real training. 
However, other supernatural talents primarily result 
from training, experience, and circumstance, rather than birth. 
The Unown usually choose Rune Masters from those 
who discover artifacts related to them, often those who feel a great need or desire that requires supernatural power to satisfy. At other times, it appears like pure whim who is graced with the ability to manipulate the 
letter Pokémon. In any case, it’s impossible to guarantee 
that the Unown will “accept” you and grant you their  
 
   power, no matter how much time you pour into collect-ing and studying their artifacts.
The supernatural empathy that characters like N demon-
strate is also a byproduct of experience rather than in-nate talent. Growing up near Pokémon rather than peo-ple and connecting with them has allowed his ability to understand Pokémon grow to literally magical levels. Most Channelers come from a similar background and feel like they’re more at home with Pokémon than with other humans. In any case, it also takes an open and accepting personality to develop these powers, and this suggests that other expressions of strong personality traits may similarly develop into supernatural powers with the right environment to nurture them. For exam-ple, a Herald of Pride requires a boastful and prideful personality and a near constant exposure to Dragon Type Pokémon, while a Wind Runner is born from an exceptionally free spirit living among Flying Types since an early age. 
The abilities of Ninjas, Sages, and Hex Maniacs are large-
ly gained from dedicated study, as are those of Druids and Stone Warriors. Tools and implements as well as specialized training routines are much more important to those wielding these supernatural powers. 
As for the rest of the Elementalist Feature Trees, they’re 
easy to sort into categories as you like. Maelstroms, Swarmlords, and Steelhearts grow from appropriate per -
sonalities with heavy exposure to their respective types. Prisms and Glamour Weavers find themselves graced with power by chance or the blessing of a Legendary Pokémon. Apparitions and Shade Callers are born with their powers. Miasmics could be derived from an ob-scure Ninja tradition. And so on and so forth. 
Genre and Setting26Practices of Neigong
This Chinese-inspired system of metaphysics is perfect 
for a Wuxia campaign and takes a more unified ap-proach to the nature of supernatural powers than the Mystic Traditions framework.
Elemental Types are not a basic building block of mat-
ter, but they are basic building blocks for life and specif-ically life energy, or Qi. Pokémon are born with the nat-ural capability to channel and control flows of Qi within their body in line with certain elemental Types, and in fact they can never change the nature of their internal energies, which is what binds them to certain Types. 
Humans, in comparison, are born without this innate 
knowledge but as a result can learn methods of inter -
nal alchemy which let them control the nature of the Qi flow in their bodies. As a result, all Elemental Connec-tion Feature Trees require a general practice of aligning one’s body, breath, and mind. As with real life practices of neigong, there exist manifold methods for achieving internal balance, and in this framework they are used to achieve mastery of different Elemental Connections. 
Dynamic choreographed movements such as those 
used in Tai Chi are often practiced by those seeking a deeper connection with Types that emphasize flow and movement, such as Flying, Fighting, and Water. 
Practitioners seeking mastery of level and stable Types 
like Rock, Steel, and Ground use training based on holding static stances for long periods of time. 
Meditation and visualization exercises benefit those 
seeking Psychic, Dark, or Dragon Type power, and those who want to become a Prism must become adept at clearing their heads and letting thought and energy merely flow through it.
Not all neigong is based on purely internal practice ei-
ther. Use of medicines and other external aids, includ-ing Pokémon, is the centerpiece of Grass and Bug Con-nection, and these techniques are also used for many of the Supernatural Feature Trees which don’t require an Elemental Connection. No one in this framework is simply born with supernat-ural powers. Everyone who attains that level of mastery 
has trained for it and dedicated themselves to a partic-
ular philosophy and method for attaining internal bal-
ance and control of their qi flows. 
Divine Bloodlines
This framework also unifies all Types and Elemental Connections under one umbrella, but it makes most supernatural powers hereditary in nature rather than trained skills, with a twist on their origin.
At one point in history, Pokémon did not exist, and the 
universe functioned much like ours did. No one knows exactly when or why Pokémon came into being, but when they did, their existence fundamentally changed the nature of reality. Elemental Types are not the only building blocks of reality, but they color and influence a great deal of how they work and are present in all Pokémon. 
In the early days of the age of Pokémon, pure expres-
sions of the Elemental Types, known as the Outer Gods (read the appropriate section in the Blessed and the Damned for more) appeared before humanity to help guide them through the crisis caused by the sudden appearance of Pokémon. Much like the ancient gods of many cultures, these Outer Gods often took human form and had children among mortals, who were then blessed with a fraction of their power. With each suc-cessive generation, however, the strength of that divine blood waned. 
Today, most people who have divine ancestors do not 
even know it, and the family trees are too muddled to accurately trace whether any given individual or fami-ly has divine origins. It takes a unique combination of circumstance, strength of personality, and pre-existing skill to awaken a latent Elemental Connection. Most who do feel a quiet calling in the back of their head to act as an agent of their Outer God ancestor, most of whom have retreated from civilization to elemental Otherworlds and are now known as little more than an-cient myths and legends. 
Genre and Setting27The Supernatural Feature Trees that don’t require Ele-
mental Connections were largely developed in ancient 
times to combat rogue children of the Outer Gods, who 
often abused the much more potent elemental powers 
that resulted from their more direct connection to their divine forebearers. For example, it’s suspected that Un-
own were originally invented to create a dimensional 
prison for Outer Gods or their children, though present 
day Rune Masters would hardly have the knowledge to 
recreate that kind of application.
Elemental Anima, a Pokémon Metaphysics
The Pokémon universe contains many elements that the 
canonical media does not quite fully explain. How do Pokémon evolve with such rapidity? Why are Poké Balls able to contain them but not humans? How do humans come to manifest supernatural abilities such as Aura Manipulation and Telekinesis? Why are birds naturally resistant to punches? 
The Game of Throhs supplement for PTU adds to these 
questions with the Elementalist Suite of Trainer Class-es - now Trainers can gain supernatural powers aligned with any of the 18 Types of Pokémon, not just the Fight-ing-associated Aura or the Psychic-associated Psionics. This framework is designed primarily for the Visiwa set-ting included in this book but has a couple extra ideas and can be used for any fantastical Pokémon setting to provide a foundation for explaining the supernatural el-ements of the franchise and how supernatural Trainer Classes work. 
As you might have inferred from the title, this frame-
work is based on animism, a set of beliefs seen in re-ligions and other spiritual beliefs throughout history that posits that all things in nature - humans, animals, plants, even rocks and other inanimate objects - house an animating spirit or soul. Another common idea in animist beliefs is a separation between the physical and spiritual realms, which will also be used in this frame-work. If you want to do some of your own research and reading on the topic, take a look at indigenous tribal re-ligions, such as those in the Americas and Philippines, or at Shinto, for a good start.
The Nature of Pokémon and Humans
In our framework, we’ll call these spirits Anima, and there are 19 varieties of Anima. Of these, 18 varieties are associated with the 18 elemental Types of Pokémon. These are the Elemental Anima, and every Pokémon is animated by a spirit with the aspects of at least one of these 18 Anima. But there also exists a 19th variety called the Origin Anima or Creation Anima. This latter variety is (usually) exclusive to human beings.
Humans are therefore inherently different from all 
Pokémon on a spiritual level, which is very important for this framework. The Origin Anima is known for stability in its growth and development - hence why humans mostly appear share the same body type, aside from minor differences such as coloration and other aesthetic differences. In contrast, the Elemental Anima are far more versatile in how they express themselves in the physical world; a Fire Anima can animate ani-mal-like Pokémon such as Charmander and Torkoal as well as stranger creatures like Slugma and Litwick. However, as the name suggests, the Origin or Creation 
Anima are also intensely creative. In fact, it is from hu-
man thought and imagination that all Pokémon forms arise. The Origin Anima acts as a wellspring of inspi-ration from which the Elemental Anima draws the de-signs for Pokémon species. As human civilization and natural philosophy advances, new Pokémon species come into the world, and new Elemental Anima, such as the Steel Anima, may even develop. 
This difference between the Origin Anima and the El-
emental Anima also explains Poké Ball technology and Pokémon evolution. The stability of the Origin Anima does not allow the rapid form changing of Pokémon evolution, and Poké Ball technology relies upon the in-herent mutability of Elemental Anima in order to turn Pokémon into energy - a form of pure Anima rather than physical form.
How exactly the process of new Pokémon creation oc-
curs is a place where you can put your own interpre-tation into your setting and give it personal flair. New Pokémon species may arise spontaneously all the time, 
Genre and Setting28with local populations completely driven by the whimsy 
of human dreams and stories. Y ou may instead decide 
that new Pokémon species arise in large batches, after 
the Origin Anima becomes full with new ideas or has 
time to process the creative output of human civiliza-
tion for an extended period of time. This is an easy way 
to introduce the concept of different Generations of 
Pokémon if you wish to give significance to that way of 
organizing Pokémon in your campaign. 
The position of Legendary Pokémon is also up to in-
terpretation in this framework. Y ou may use Legendary 
Pokémon as near deities, powerful entities that have an 
innate influence over the Elemental Anima and may 
even be living embodiments of them. This could come 
about due to the very rare instances where a Pokémon 
has an aspect of the Origin Anima within them. 
Alternatively, you may simply have them be Pokémon 
that contain a large amount of Elemental Anima and are rare but otherwise completely normal. An idea you will 
see used in both the settings offered here is that Legend-
ary Pokémon need worship and belief from humans in 
order to maintain their power, and they will usually be 
tied to locations that are significant in the human col-lective consciousness. 
Pokémon Types and Their Anima
What each Pokémon Type represents in this metaphys-ical framework might not be immediately clear, espe-cially when it comes to creating landscapes that are infused with the Elemental Anima of Types such as Dragon. Most of the Types are fairly obvious, however. Grass would be associated with lush forests, Rock and Ground would be associated with caves and mountains, Fire would be associated with volcanoes, and so on and so forth. Combinations may exist as well, such as hot springs and geysers associated with both Fire and Wa-ter. 
Here are some ideas for what some of the Types can rep-
resent:•	Dragon and Fighting-Type both represent life and vitality to some extent. 
•	In the case of Dragon, this association is more wild and untamed, like vitalism growing out of control. Terrains infused with Dragon Anima would also tend further toward the extremes. Dragon Anima in the oceans would produce treacherous waves, and Dragon Anima in the mountains produces jagged and perilous peaks. Both locations would be fraught with extreme weather.
•	Fighting on the other hand represents life in a state of disciplined conflict. Hills and valleys in the area would produce what seem like natural arenas and training grounds, and the wildlife in the area would be intensely competitive with each other. 
•	Ghost-Types represent the imprints or remnants of the memories of the deceased. Travelers wandering through these lands are haunted with hallucinations of loved ones long dead as the land turns their own memories against them. 
•	Dark-Type lands are deceptive and fraught with hidden danger. Lakes and oceans hide a treacherous undercurrent which pulls unwary swimmers down to their deaths. Natural pitfall traps and quicksand appear in dark forests and marshes. 
•	Fairy-infused locales have an air of mysticism about them. Landforms and plants often have a soft glow that betrays their nature, and foraging for food in these areas can be an unpredictable and potentially hazardous endeavor - eating berries, mushrooms, and other plants and fungi from a Fairy-Typed land can have unexpected side-effects, from giving the eater magical compulsions to causing temporary minor glamour effects on their appearance. 
In a similar fashion to how the land itself can be infused with Elemental Anima, the attacks and Moves that Pokémon are infused with them as well. This may seem obvious, but this is the reason why a punch performed as a Mega Punch will barely tick an Aggron while a punch performed as a Focus Punch can deal devastat-ing double super-effective damage. The technique for performing the latter calls Fighting-Type Anima and changes the very nature of the attack itself. 
Trainers and Supernatural Powers
What does this mean for humans with supernatural powers? While most humans are purely of the Origin Anima, some may be born with an aspect of an Elemen-tal Anima as well - which is represented in the system as the Elemental Connection Edge. Still others may have their spirit forcefully infused with an Elemental Anima 
Genre and Setting29through outside influence - blessings from Legendary 
Pokémon, accidents involving areas of high Elemental 
Anima concentration, and purposeful use of magic ritu-
als are all ways this can happen. Elementalists, Psychics, 
Aura Guardians, and other supernatural abilities all re-
sult from this kind of spiritual blending. More ‘generic’ 
supernatural abilities that aren’t tied to a certain Type, 
such as Channeling can be explained as greater spiritual 
sensitivity, an awareness of the Elemental Anima and 
ability to manipulate it that most humans do not share. 
In settings written with this framework as a foundation, 
the occult is not some mysterious and esoteric art that 
few know of and understand. It is used on a daily ba-
sis, and most people would make use of simple rituals 
and “magic” just as often as they use “technology” . Apri-
corns are the first and most widespread example of this, 
as it takes a simple magical ritual anyone can perform to 
unlock their latent potential and create Apricorn Balls 
out of them.
A World in Flux
Another consequence of the stability of the Origin Ani-ma and the volatility of the Elemental Anima is that the entire world exists in a state of constant flux, and the only points of stability are major human civilizations. Landmarks and particularly well known locations - the ones that have taken root in human imagination, are well known among many people, or have stories told about them - remain in place as long as they are re-membered, but the rest of the land twists and contorts as if alive itself. And in a way, it is most definitely alive; the land is infused with latent Elemental Anima, which determine which Types of Pokémon most commonly come to inhabit the area. 
For example, a particularly ancient tree or a tall rock 
outcropping covered in vines may have become deeply embedded in local knowledge of a forest, and thus they would remain and could act as consistent touchstones for travelers trying to find their way.  However, the sur -
rounding forest will change, with springs and creeks fading in and out of existence, large groves and clear -
ings appearing at arbitrary points, and even small hills and valleys growing from the ground. Travelers therefore can rarely rely on maps more de-tailed than a list of landmarks, and navigating the wilds is a highly valued and difficult skill. 
There’s a method to this madness, however. An area will 
never change in a way that is significantly alien to its latent Elemental Anima. A forest filled with Bug and Grass Anima will probably forever remain a forest or grassland of some form, though it may change through the ages from a thick and lush rainforest to fragrant and colorful field of flowers. Of course, there are ways in which Elemental Anima may come and go from an area, and thus a particular location may change Elemental alignment as new Anima shift in or even become barren in the absence of strong Elemental Anima nearby.
Y ou might wonder why we’re including such an odd 
phenomena in our metaphysical framework. The an-swer’s quite simple really. It gives a good reason for the wilderness to be a dangerous and unpredictable place, and it makes traveling and pathfinding into a viable pro-fession. Skilled Trainers would become invaluable assets for merchants who need to find their way through the wilderness, as it would be nearly impossible to establish consistently safe paths through the wild. The world will likely never enter an age where exploration is “done” . The world will continue to change as human thought changes, and there will always be more to discover. 
As a GM, you should introduce ideas for how to allow 
PCs to better navigate the flux of the wilds, which can be interpreted as an innate ability to ‘read’ the ambi-ent Elemental Anima in an area, or as an expression of the Origin Anima and its creative force on the world around it - rather than discover a safe path through the wilds, a very willful human may actually unconsciously create that path as they travel. 
The Dream World 
Obviously, with a metaphysics framework that makes everything into spirits, there’s a lot of room for magical planes beyond our own. Many settings have a concept of a spirit world where the reflections and ideas behind real physical objects have their purer spiritual form. In this framework, that place is the Dream World. We said before that the human subconscious fuels the process of populating the world with Pokémon, and the place 
Genre and Setting30these ideas take form and grow before finding their way 
into the real world is the Dream World. 
One never directly visits the Dream World physically. 
It’s not like stepping into a door and coming out in a 
different place. Rather, it’s like peeling back a layer of an 
onion, in this case the layer of the physical world, and 
peering within. It’s not easy to do. Dream Mist created 
by certain Pokémon species can help the process, and 
of course it is much easier to do while one is asleep and 
dreaming, with their minds in a mutable state. Dedi-
cated Dream World enthusiasts will brew tea and other 
concoctions using the Dream Mist to help them peer 
through the veil.
Normal humans are the most “pure” form of Origin 
Anima and have the easiest time perceiving and ma-
nipulating the Dream World. Humans with an aspect 
of Elemental Anima often have trouble perceiving or 
influencing anything in the Dream World that doesn’t directly relate to their chosen Type. Everything else is a 
bit blurred and feels ephemeral. Part of the reason be-
hind this setting decision is to give normal humans a 
bit more utility in a fantastical setting where they might 
be overshadowed by their more magical counterparts when it comes to plot hooks and interesting mystical 
adventures. 
So what does one actually do in the Dream World? 
Well, this is the “factory” where new Pokémon species are created. The united force of the whole world’s collec-
tive consciousness drives this factory, which means one 
individual human, even if they’re peering directly into 
the Dream World and touching it, cannot do much to 
influence the overall direction of things. 
However, it’s possible to “steal” from this factory and 
take Pokémon out before they’re ready to be introduced 
to the rest of the world. Such a brazen defiance of the 
natural order is not without its dangers, of course. Y ou 
may decide that Legendary Pokémon act as spiritu-
al guardians to this realm, seeking out and punishing 
those who would steal from it. Or you may simply de-
cide Pokémon taken out early are unformed and unsta-
ble, causing a myriad of problems around them. 
The Dream World is also a good way to gain insight and 
hand out plot information, from diving into an import-ant NPC’s dreams, to finding the spiritual source of a 
disaster in the physical world. Oracles may also draw 
on the Dream World when performing their Auguries. 
Demesnes: Pokémon and the Origin Anima
As described further above, there are rare instanc-
es where Pokémon carry a bit of the Origin Anima in them as well, instead of being purely of Elemental Ani-ma. This phenomenon should be treated as very rare in a setting, as its implications are quite drastic: The infu-sion of a Pokémon with Origin Anima causes them to influence and warp their surroundings with their mere presence and thought, similar to humans. 
However, unlike humans, individual Pokémon that car -
ry the Origin Anima have a significant effect on their 
environments and can alter them consciously, shaping them into mystical realms that seem to exist in another dimension all on their own but blend seamlessly into normal. At one moment, a group of Trainers may be going on what they think is a routine walk in the forest, and in the next, they are trekking through the labyrin-thine mystical Demesne of an Origin-empowered Tor -
terra. 
These Demesnes have heightened supernatural quali-
ties. A forest is filled with walking trees that will uproot and rearrange themselves, closing off parts of the forest while opening new paths. Trainers will find themselves suddenly engulfed by a rising wall of water as coral reefs spring into existence around them, but after a moment’s panic, they realize they can breathe the water.  
While it is easy to wander into a Demesne by mistake, 
it is difficult or impossible not to realize where you are once you’ve gone further inside. Y ou can think of them as the spiritual domains of local deities, and in fact if you were to use the idea of Legendary Pokémon in a setting with this metaphysics framework, giving them a piece of Origin Anima and creating a sprawling Demesne for them within a shrine dedicated to their worship is a good way to do so. Y ou may also decide that belief and worship powers a Pokémon’s Demesne. The more hu-mans worship and revere (or fear) these Pokémon, the more they subconsciously lend them strength through the subtle ways that the Origin Anima changes the world, and the more these Pokémon grow. 
Genre and Setting31The Pokémon who control these Demesnes have several 
advantages in battle as well. First of all, every Pokémon 
of this nature should be created using the Boss Template. 
The infusion of Origin Anima, the essence of creation, 
into a Pokémon drastically increases their strength. Sec-
ond of all, the Origin Anima makes them impossible to 
capture with Poké Ball technology, similar to humans.
Third of all, the influence these Pokémon wield over 
their Demesnes extends so far as to allow them to cre-ate other Pokémon on the fly to act as allies in battle. 
Finally, whether they are true Legendaries or not, these 
Pokémon should be able to control their environments 
to help them fight and conjure up effects similar to Leg-
endary Auras in the Blessed and Damned supplement 
book. For example, the Origin-infused Torterra acting 
as a local deity may wield the Creation and Life Auras 
when faced in battle.
Fantasy Pokémon Variants
There are a few Pokémon species that assume a certain level of scientific advancement that might seem problem-
atic for a fantasy game.  Fret not, because we’ll be discussing those species here and how you can make them more setting appropriate.  Also here are a few other fantasy variants to spice up a few species, and present some ideas you could extend to additional ones as well!
The Antikythera Pokémon
This set of variant Pokémon is based on the Antikythera Mechanism, an ancient device used for predicting the movements of cosmic bodies and a precursor to ana-log computers. Mysterious devices created by ancient civilizations are a dime a dozen in fantasy settings, and they provide a way to integrate oddball or anachronistic Pokémon into a campaign in an interesting way. This machine has three Pokémon as its primary components.
The Klink line makes up the bulk of the device, ancient 
rusted gears which representing mechanical knowledge 
beyond what one might expect of civilizations of the time. Unlike normal versions of the Klink family, these Pokémon cluster into larger groups, sometimes com-prising up to a dozen gears constantly churning towards a  mysterious purpose.
Unown  engraved upon the surface of the machine may 
come to life to observe those who examine the machine 
and are thought to provide instructions for operation or ways to read the information it uncovers. Whatever the standard written language is for your setting, these Un-own are not in that language. Y ou could choose to use Greek letters, Chinese characters, or even make some-thing up all your own.Voltorb  are used as an arcane power source for this ma-
chine, and they are the only aspect of this write-up that isn’t based on a detail of the real Antikythera Mecha-nism. In addition to harnessing Electricity in some nov-el way for the device, these Voltorb seem to be linked to the Sun and Moon, and possibly other cosmic bodies. Researchers presume that they serve some purpose in the astronomical applications of the machine. 
Mechanics: 
•	Klink: Lose Plus/Minus for Technician. Lose Early Bird. Targeting System becomes an Advanced Abili-ty. The High Ability becomes Cluster Mind. Replace Charge Beam with Spark, Mirror Shot with Mag-net Bomb, Discharge with Wild Charge, and Hyper Beam with Meteor Mash. 
•	Unown : No mechanical changes here, only a fluff  
one on the side of both Unown and Rune Masters.
•	Voltorb : Becomes Electric/Fairy Type. Replace 
Soundproof with choice of Starlight or Sunglow. Replace Rollout with Moonlight or Morning Sun. Replace Swift with Dazzling Gleam. Replace Gyro Ball with Moonblast.
Clockwork Porygon
Porygon is a tricky Pokémon to implement in historical 
settings for obvious reasons. Digital computers didn’t exist until very recently in human history, and Porygon are practically wedded to those technologies. However, this variant is based upon analog computers, of which we have uncovered examples dating back to antiquity. 
While not much appears to be different at first glance, 
a closer examination of the Pokémon reveals that it is made from stained glass rather than a futuristic plastic compound, and one can just barely make out the move-ment of myriad cogs and gears on the inside. 
Mechanics: Loses Wired for the Machine Spirit Capa-
bility. This Capability allows the Clockwork Porygon to influence and control simple machines around it, much like a normal Porygon can control electronics. Howev-er, it cannot “jump in” and possess a machine the same way its modern-day variant does.
Fire Elemental Chandelure
Beings of pure elemental essence are surprisingly short in supply in the Pokémon world, for all its focus on el-emental Types. However, it’s fairly easy to create such creatures by stripping away the Ghost-Typing from cer -
tain species and treating them as pure manifestations of their secondary Type. 
This approach can be used for other elementals as well, 
such as turning a Rotom into a lightning elemental or a Jellicent into a water elemental. 
Mechanics: Becomes pure Fire-Type. Replace Soul-
stealer with Fox Fire, and Infiltrator with Heat Mirage. Replace Night Shade with Swift, Imprison with Incin-erate, Hex with Fiery Dance, Curse with Morning Sun, and Shadow Ball with Solar Beam. 
Loses Phasing, Invisibility, and Dead Silent. Gains 
Amorphous.Haunted Armor Golurk
It is said there once lived a great king who always re-ceived his audience alone in his throne room and kept no personal guard. Through years of courtly intrigue, threats from foreign nations, and even unrest and near-civil war, he persisted in this policy and yet he nev-er fell prey to any threat to his person. Some stories sing praises of the king’s martial prowess and champion the notion that his ability in single combat was too great for any assassin to overcome, no matter their preparations or advantage in numbers. 
However, the truth is much simpler. Lining the walls of 
his throne room were the suits of armor belonging to all the greatest heroes and warriors of his kingdom. Ev-ery time a knight of legend fell in battle, the king would send his magisters to seek and bind the soul of the fallen knight to the armor they wore in life, to become eternal sentinels and secret guardians for his throne room. 
This Golurk variant takes on the appearance of a suit of 
armor, rather than a golem or automation, and when it is inactive, it is virtually indistinguishable from an or -
dinary suit of armor. It can be used in a dungeon crawl campaign as an ambush encounter to keep players on their toes, or as guardians to an ancient and sacred place. These Golurks are often paired with the Honedge line, and together, they are a devastating combination.
Mechanics: Becomes Ghost/Steel Type. Gains the 
Wielder Capability. Replace Iron Fist with Bulletproof, Klutz with Sturdy, and No Guard with Parry. Replace Mud-Slap with Bullet Punch, Magnitude with Iron 
Head, and Earthquake with Meteor Mash. 
Genre and Setting33
Homunculus Reuniclus
The Solosis line of Pokémon were invented as part 
of an experiment in creating artificial humans. The products were anything but human, but remnants of the project or instructions for their creation can be found in the ruins of deserted alchemists’ labs, waiting to be rediscovered. Each Solosis has an intense desire to become more human, and when they find a Trainer, they will do everything in their power to emulate the qualities that they believe constitute humanity. 
This variety of Solosis cannot reach its fully-evolved 
state without the help of a human teaching it and showing it how to act more human. It will latch onto them and the values and desires they teach, which influences their final evolutionary form.
Mechanics: This Solosis variant is Normal-Type and 
has the following changes to its Move List: Psywave becomes Sonic Boom, Psyshock becomes Swift, Future Sight becomes Trump Card, Psychic becomes Hyper Beam, Heal Block becomes Recycle, and Wonder Room becomes Lucky Chant. 
However, in order to evolve into a Reuniclus, this 
variant needs to learn and embrace a type of desire that it considers formative to its humanity. The desire it em-braces determines the Type it becomes upon evolving into a Reuniclus, with its Move List changing accord-ingly. A fully realized Homunculus Reuniclus also gains a Trainer Feature based on the desire they em-braced. For the purposes of this variant, when such a Feature refers to “your Pokémon” , it instead affects this Reuniclus only.
The five types of desire are: desire for knowledge, de-
sire for pleasure, desire for power, desire for belonging, and desire for freedom. Use the table below as a refer -
ence. Note that a Reuniclus that embraces a desire for pleasure retains its Normal Typing and Moves and that a desire for knowledge has different Moves than the original despite having the same Psychic-Type.
Desire Knowledge Pleasure Power Belonging Freedom
Type Psychic Normal Dragon Fairy Flying
Level 1 Move Psywave Sonic Boom Dragon Rage Fairy Wind Gust
Level 25 Move Psyshock Swift Dragon Breath Dazzling Gleam Air Cutter
Level 31 Move Psychic Trump Card Dragon Pulse Moonblast Air Slash
Level 39 Move Psycho Boost Hyper Beam Draco Meteor Light of Ruin Hurricane
Level 54 Move Miracle Eye Recycle Snatch Attract Defog
Level 59 Move Role Play Lucky Chant Mimic Misty Terrain Tailwind
Feature Echoes of the FutureDietician Deadly Gam-bitGo, Fight, Win! Burst of Speed

Genre and Setting34Honedge Armory
In most ordinary Pokémon campaigns, a sword is just a 
sword, and it doesn’t particularly matter if a character is wielding a katana, a jian, a scimitar, or some other type of sword. Players in a fantasy campaign, particularly one with specific cultural inspirations, will be more discern-ing and may even pursue a Honedge with a particular model of sword, rather than the default claymore-like appearance, on their own initiative. 
Similar to the Cofagrigus and Samurott variants pre-
sented in this chapter, this variant is primarily designed to help you resolve cultural inconsistencies that may come from using particular Pokémon in your campaign. 
Mechanics: The following variants are mechanically 
identical to the original Honedge line except for two crucial differences. They each switch out King’s Shield for a different Shield Move, and they grant different Moves when being wielded as a Living Weapon. 
Duelist’s Honedge: This variant begins as a thin rapi-
er, evolves into a pair of daggers as Doublade, and then finally becomes a rapier paired with a sword breaker as Aegislash. Honedge’s Adept Move: Pierce!Doublade’s Adept Move: Cheap ShotAegislash’s Adept Move: Pierce!Aegislash’s Master Move: Riposte
Move : Blade Trap
Type : Steel
Frequency : Scene
AC: None
Class: Status
Range : Self, Interrupt, Shield, Trigger
Effect : If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use 
Blade Trap. The user is instead not hit by the Move. Y ou do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the attacker becomes Vulnerable for one full round.Spartan’s Honedge: This variant begins as a thick kop-is, becomes two smaller xiphos swords when it evolves 
into Doublade, and then becomes a kopis again as Aeg-
islash, paired with the iconic aspis shield used by Spar -
tan hoplites. In its final form, Aegislash tends to use its 
shield for offense just as much as it does its blade half. Honedge’s Adept Move: Wounding Strike
Doublade’s Adept Move: Pierce!
Aegislash’s Adept Move: Wounding Strike
Aegislash’s Master Move: Titanic Slam
Move : Phalanx
Type : Steel
Frequency : Scene
AC: None
Class: Status
Range : Self, Interrupt, Shield, Trigger
Effect : If the user is hit by an attack, the user may use 
Phalanx. The user is instead not hit by the Move. Y ou do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. In addition, if the triggering attack was Melee ranged, the user may immediately perform an Attack of Opportunity against the attacker.
Jousting Samurott
As hinted by its name, Samurott is based on the samurai warriors of Japanese history, which makes it a good can-didate for a variant Pokémon in more western-inspired settings. Rather than using its horn for cutting attacks like Fury Cutter and Slash, this variant is based on Eu-ropean knights and jousting. 
In terms of appearance, Samurott’s “armor” and “hel-
met” take on the appearance of European plate mail, including a pseudo-visor over its eyes to help protect them. 
Mechanics: Becomes Water/Steel Type and swaps Spe-
cial Attack and Defense in its Base Stats. Replace Fury Cutter with Drill Peck, replace Slash with Iron Head, replace Swords Dance with Iron Defense. Replace the Inner Focus Ability with Run Up.
Genre and Setting35Outsider Kabutops
Extraplanar beings are a staple of fantasy works, wheth-
er they be eldritch entities whose very existence tears apart reality, or simpler more benign but still mysteri-ous beings who hail from worlds quite different from our own. This Kabutops belongs to the former category, and it is well known for slaying mages who act with hu-bris and recklessness in their study of other worlds and dimensions. 
Adding to its fearsome appearance, its form is unsta-
ble and erratic in the Pokémon world, as alien forms of matter and magic struggle to maintain a persistent state of being in a world of Pokémon’s Elemental Types. In one moment, it is ephemeral, easily floating through walls in pursuit of fleeing victims or to make a quick es-cape itself. In the next, it becomes jagged and deadly, a mess of shadowy blades that easily seek out weak points in even the most well-armored opponent. 
Mechanics: Becomes Rock/Dark-Type or Rock/Ghost-
Type. Phase Shift becomes its only Basic Ability. Its Ad-vanced Abilities are Sturdy, Shadow Tag, and Battle Ar -
mor. Its High Ability depends on its current typing. As a Ghost-Type, it has Fade Away. As a Dark-Type, it has Super Luck. 
Replace Aqua Jet with Shadow Sneak, Mega Drain with 
Pursuit, Slash with Shadow Claw, Ancient Power with Stone Edge, Wring Out with Phantom Force. 
Ability : Phase Shift
At-Will - Shift Action
Effect : The user changes its Ghost-Typing to Dark-Type 
or vice versa. 
Has the Phasing Capability while Ghost-Type, and 
Mindlock while Dark-Type. 
Pegasus Rapidash
This one is a bit of a no-brainer. The Pegasus is one of the most well-known and recognized mythological crea-tures, and it is quite easy to imagine the majestic Rapi-dash as having a winged variant that soars through the sky. Of course, this raises questions of where such crea-tures came from. They could be magical experiments conducted between wizards and Pokémon Breeders to serve a royal army, or perhaps they’re the creations of bored Gods. Either way, in a setting where these vari-ant Pokémon exist, they are sure to change the face of warfare. 
Mechanics: Becomes Fire/Flying Type. Gains a Sky 
Speed of 6 as Ponyta and 9 as Rapidash. Add Wing At-tack as a Level 10 Move. Replace Take Down with Acro-batics, and replace Fury Attack with Brave Bird. 

Genre and Setting36Re-Cultured Cofagrigus
In a modern setting with a well-connected world, it’s 
easy to take a Pokémon that makes a very specific cul-tural reference like Cofagrigus and explain it away as having been discovered in a faraway land and popular -
ized and spread later. 
However, in many historical settings, such Pokémon are 
difficult to account for and may be jarring to the overall feel of the setting. In this case, a variant Cofagrigus sim-ply has a different funeral receptacle, rather than a sar -
cophagus, fitting for whatever best matches the culture and setting in your campaign.  Don’t forget to change the base form Y amask’s death mask to be appropriate to your campaign’s setting. 
Mechanics: Re-Cultured Cofagrigus have a Type Shift, 
the appropriate Move List changes, and a replacement for their Sand Veil Ability. Y ou may rename Mummy to be culturally appropriate for your game. Here are some examples.•	Coffin Cofagrigus: This Cofagrigus has a wooden coffin rather than a sarcophagus. Ghost/Grass Type. Loses Sand Veil for Pressure. Replace Haze with In-
grain, Ominous Wind with Energy Ball, and add 
Giga Drain as a Level 42 Move. Adjust TM and Tu-
tor Lists according to this new Type.
•	Burial Tomb Cofagrigus: This Cofagrigus is en-cased in a stone coffin. Ghost/Rock Type. Loses 
Sand Veil for Sturdy. Replace Haze with Stealth 
Rock, Ominous Wind with Ancient Power, and add 
Earth Power as a Level 42 Move. Adjust TM and Tu-tor Lists according to this new Type.
•	Funeral Pyre Cofagrigus: This Cofagrigus is com-
posed of burning sticks and other bits of wood in 
the shape of a coffin, with a visible skull up top. 
Ghost/Fire Type. Loses Sand Veil for Flash Fire. Replace Haze with Fire Spin, Ominous Wind with Flame Burst, and add Flamethrower as a Level 42 Move. Adjust TM and Tutor Lists according to this 
new Type.
Gear and Alchemy37
Chapter 2: Alchemy 
and Gear
Magical weapons, armor and relics are a staple of Fantasy settings and stories. The entire plots of many works revolve around these artifacts, and their powers are heavy influences to the narrative of others.  From a tabletop perspective, they function as both great plot hooks and as milestones for players to work for.  After all, what sword-man doesn’t want that Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking?
That said, its not always so easy to introduce these items to a game.  How rare should they be?  How powerful 
should they get?  Who makes these items and how much should they sell for?  How much should I make my play-ers work to get that Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking?   Fret not, because Alchemy is here to help answer these questions.  
Better Living Through Alchemy
Historically, Alchemy was an ancient tradition whose practitioners believed it to be the precursor to various powers.  The objectives and traditions that Alchemists followed differed from culture to culture, but there were a few staple trends.  
The first of these trends was a set of three goals that 
cropped up very commonly in alchemical traditions: the desire to turn basic metals into noble metals (such as turning lead into gold), the development of an elixir of youth, and the development of a Philosopher’s Stone.  The Philosopher’s stone was believed to be a miracle substance that could do a variety of things, but the most common trend was that it was believed to be able to cre-ate life, bring back the dead, or grant immortality.  
The second of these trend was that Alchemy was seen 
as a protoscience, mixing mythology, magic, religion, spirituality and other hermetic principals with struc-tured laboratory techniques, theory, terminology and experimental method.  Alchemists had a method to their madness, and their work paved the way for more modern sciences like chemistry and medicine.  
The third and most relevant to trend to Pokémon, how-
ever, would be that most Alchemists believed that ev-erything in our world was composed of four elements: Earth, Air, Fire and Water.
Gear and Alchemy38Taking what we know of traditional alchemical practic-
es, and extending that to the world of Pokémon, things 
mesh up pretty well.  The mystical traditions that Alche-
mists followed already have precedence in the world of 
Pokémon through both the various Types of Pokémon 
and the other supernatural arts that humans are capa-
ble of.  Instead of just four elemental types, these Al-
chemists had eighteen to work with, and the creation of 
Pokémon species such as Reuniclus or Mewtwo could 
have come about from an Alchemist successfully creat-
ing a Philosopher’s Stone.  
If we accept that Alchemy is an understood and prac-
ticed form of craftsmanship in the world of Pokémon, it  
makes it much easier for both players and Game Mas-ters to approach these magical items in a way that’s both 
accessible, but also quantifiable.  
For example, revisiting the Badass Fire Sword of Fairy 
Buttkicking.  If a player wanted to get an item like this 
made, it wouldn’t be out of the question to find a black-
smith or alchemist, find out what they’ d need to get it 
made and how much the labor would cost, and then go 
gather the reagents.  
Or, if the players find a Badass Fire Sword of Fairy But-
tkicking in an ancient ruin and wish to sell it, finding 
out how much its worth gets much easier when the 
Game Master has an idea what it would take to make 
this item.  Now if only we had some rules to do that...
A Method to the Madness
While there’s a lot of mysticism and spiritual tradition 
surrounding alchemy, at its base are a set of concrete steps and basic procedure that don’t change.  
Step 1: Choose the Base
First off, you need an item that you are attempting to alchemize a magical property upon.  This item is known as the Base of your alchemical formula.  Most mundane equipment, such as weapons, clothing, armor, accesso-ries and tools, make fine Bases.  
Consumables and perishables typically do not work 
as Bases, nor does trying to use a living organism as a Base work.  One could, for example, alchemically en-chant some ink and then tattoo it onto a person, but you could not directly alchemize the enchantment onto that person.
While a Base that has previously been enchanted can 
be used as a Base in an attempt to change or empower its enchantment, doing so is not easy and the other re-agents required to successfully perform the procedure are both scarce, and expensive.
Step 2: Choose the Catalyst
The Catalyst  is usually an elemental stone, TM, keep-
sake, or other common held item. They define the main quality of the alchemized item, usually a Type align-ment but sometimes a particular tendency like being used for Injuries or Flinching. Fossils can also be used as Catalysts, and sometimes especially rare Catalysts can be used such as Type Plates, which have the effect of a normal Type aligned Catalyst but with a bonus.
Step 3: Add Extras
Extras are typically disposable or consumable items that can give an alchemized item quirks such as berries, type gems, dream mist, cleanse tags, etc. Multiple Extras must often be used in the alchemy formula. Three is a good baseline.  
As their name implies, Extras aren’t required for Alche-
my to work.  Maybe the item is being made on a budget, or someone doesn’t care about the ‘of Fairy Buttkicking’ part of the Badass Fire Sword, so they don’t need the Extras.  
Step 4: Alchemize!
If you haven’t already found an Alchemist to perform the procedure, now’s the time to do so!  Once an Alche-mist has a Base, a Catalyst, and the required Extras, they are ready to perform the procedure.  
The one caveat here is that an Alchemist can only Al-
chemize items when they are within their Alchemical 
Lodge.  An Alchemical Lodge is essentially a workshop 
Gear and Alchemy39that contains a collection of symbols, writings, tools, fe-
tishes and other mystical materials that help the Alche-mist record their lore, expand their talent and practice Alchemy.  
The actual contents of these Lodges differ from Alche-
mist to Alchemist (an Irish Blacksmith who also prac-tices Alchemy is not going to have the same sort of lodge as an Indian Sherpa), but their functionality is more or less identical in that an Alchemist needs to be in their comfort zone and place of power to perform the ritual.  The ritual itself takes an Extended Action to perform, after which the item is enchanted.
Alchemical Lodges are normally stationary, but can be 
set up and taken down in the event the Alchemist has to move.  Setting up or taking down a Lodge takes about an hour, but it can take up to a week for an Alchemist to feel acclimated to it once its been moved to a new location.
Handling Alchemy as a Game Master
Probably the most important thing a Game Master should be aware of with Alchemy is it is going to se -
verely  up the power level of your campaign.  Not only 
will your players be building and finding these items, but your bad guys will need them as well to remain an actual challenge.  This can also come back to haunt you if you give a Boss a really overpowered relic, and your players defeat them and acquire it.  So you should be prepared for some additional prep work should you de-cide to include these items!
That said, they are a ton of fun on the player side, and 
your players will likely really enjoy trying to figure out what they need to get a particular effect on a piece of equipment, or just giving an Alchemist an assortment of random items and seeing what comes out of it.  
While it might only be an Extended Action to enchant 
the item, if you feel a little stumped on what the things the players tried to mix together does mechanically you shouldn’t feel pressured to answer on the spot.  Just let your player know that you’re going to need some time to figure out what the item does, and you’ll let them know when you’ve figured it out yourself.  
Part of the idea behind the Alchemical Lodge existing 
was to help with this, as it encourages players to do their Alchemy at the beginning or end of a session, when they are still in town and things are either warming up or winding down.  Players should understand that some-times their random ideas are going to stump you, but the results almost always worth the wait.On the topic of these bonuses, keep in mind that many effects will imitate, rival, or exceed what may be given by various Trainer Combat Classes in the system, and you will have to be aware of this as you assign the effects of an alchemized item so as not to inadvertently step on a player’s toes by giving a fellow player an item that mimics or outdoes their own niche. 
The upside to this is that characters will become defined 
by the personalized items they carry and accumulate through a campaign as well, which gives an additional level of customization to the players as well as allowing players to play similar concepts and Class spreads while still differentiating their characters from each other, if they so choose. 
As for Alchemists themselves, if you choose to include 
alchemized items, you should make them common place enough that its not a hassle for players to find one to get something made.  They should at least be as com-mon as your equivalent of Pokémon Centers.  
If you got a player who really wants to learn how to be-
come an Alchemist, make it a personal subplot for that player to find a mentor, be it an experienced Alchemist or a Legendary Pokémon who will help them out.  We made a choice here to not make an Edge or Feature for this for two reasons.  The first is that we didn’t want to make Alchemy a Feature tax for that player, and the sec-ond is we didn’t want people to take the Feature then be bummed they didn’t get to utilize it often.
As for the alchemical reagents themselves, your play-
ers typically shouldn’t have to buy Catalysts and Extras.  
Gear and Alchemy40Buying Bases is fine, as they are usual mundane items 
that they could pick up anywhere, but outside of the 
occasional Talismonger, these two groups of reagents 
should be things they find from exploring or hunting 
(parts from the carcass of powerful Pokémon make a 
great idea for Catalysts and Extras), or things they are 
rewarded with for their actions.  Alchemy is a really fun 
mini-game for your players when it comes to piecing 
together items to get specific effects out of them, so try 
to keep it that way by not taxing them that much on the 
puzzle pieces that make it fun, and try to throw enough 
of them out to give them lots of room to work with.  
When it comes to upgrading the enchantment on an 
item, or trying to do something unusual with this sys-
tem (such as trying to create life or revive the dead), 
the easiest solution is to get your players to require a 
Philospher’s Stone to perform what they are trying to 
do.  How these are actually made or acquired we’ll leave 
in your hands, but they should be rare enough that ac-quiring one should be a major plot point, a meaningful 
moral dilemma, or take a significant amount of time 
and resources to acquire.  
Catalyst Examples
Below we’ve listed some examples of what type of items might be considered a Catalyst, and how they might af-fect the Base item.  Note that additional Moves granted by Alchemized weapons are in addition to the Moves the weapon would normally have.
Elemental Stone and Keepsake effects: 
•	On a weapon, change the damage to the Type of the stone at Scene x3 frequency.
•	On a weapon, Grant a Move that is of the associated Type, usually Simple Weapon tier (Ex: Reaper Cloth → Shadow Sneak).
•	On armor, grant +5 Damage Reduction against at-tacks that the Type of the armor resists.
•	On armor, resist an attack the Type of the armor re-sists once a Scene.
Type Plate effects:•	In addition to normal Elemental Stone or Keepsake effect, grant an Ability associated with the Type (ex: Fox Fire for a Staff + Fire Plate).More powerful cus-tom effects that are in theme with the Type.Held Item effects:•	On a weapon, attacks with the weapon have the ef-fect of the Accessory/Held Item (Ex: King’s Rock, Razor Claw, etc).
•	On armor, grant the wearer a chance to ignore the effects the Held Item causes.  (Ex: King’s Rock grant-ing a chance to resist Flinch).
Fossil effects•	Grant an Ability known by the Pokémon that it’s a Fossil of (ex: Boots of the Rampardos that grant Run Up).
•	On a weapon, Grant the Ancient Power Spirit Surge effect to all attacks made with the weapon.
Extra Examples
Much like the previous section, these are just examples of what some items could grant as an Extra.
Type Gem effects
•	On a weapon with a matching Type Primary Cata-lyst, turn the Simple Weapon tier granted Move into a Fine Weapon tier granted Move or a Status Move (Ex: Shadow Claw instead of Shadow Sneak).
•	On a weapon, deal +5 bonus damage against ene-mies weak to the Type of the Gem.
Berry effects•	On armor, give a +2 bonus to Save Checks for the status effect the Berry heals.
Cleanse Tag effects•	On a weapon, attacks made with the Moves granted by it are treated as if the user had Scrappy.
•	On a weapon, disable Capabilities of damaged Tar -
gets like Invisibility, Phasing, etc.
•	On armor, grant Immunity to Curse.
Dream Mist effects•	On a weapon, add a 19-20 sleep effect range on weapon 
•	Grant the Sleep Talk Move.
Gear and Alchemy41Example Alchemized Items
Keep in mind these items are just examples and not an exhaustive list, but they should help players come up with 
ideas for items to combine, and ideas for Game Masters for what type of effects would be appropriate for items of a certain quality or cost point. 
Storm Gloves
Reagents: Simple Glove Weapon + Water Stone Effect: Small Melee Weapon, grants Aqua Jet.
Spread Needle
Reagents: Fine Ranged Weapon + Omastar Fossil Effect: Short Range Weapon, Grants Barrage. When using Barrage with this weapon, make the 1d8 roll for Five 
Strike before you roll Accuracy. Then, you attack a number of different targets up to the number of attacks you rolled with a DB 2 attack, as if using Barrage without the Five Strike keyword.
Staff of the Nine Flames  
Reagents: Fine Staff Weapon + Fire Plate + 3x Fire Gem Effect:  Large Arcane Weapon, grants Flame Burst and the Fox Fire Ability.
Blood Scythe  
Reagents: Fine Scythe Weapon + Big Root + 3x Dark Gem Effect:  Large Melee Weapon, grants Slash. Once a Scene heal Hit Points equal to half 
the damage dealt by an attack made with the Weapon, deals +5 damage to enemies weak to Dark.
Robes of the Songbird  
Reagents: Light Armor + Really Freaking Good Altaria Cloud Fluff + 3x Chesto Berry Effect: Light Armor, grants the Cloud Nine Ability, +2 to Save Checks vs Sleep.
Heartwarming Flute  
Reagents: Magic Flute (Cures Paralysis) + Shiny Stone + 3x Cleanse Tag Effect: Can be used 1/Scene instead of 1/Day, grants up to Occult Rank allies affected by the Flute +5 Damage 
Reduction against Ghost Attacks for the rest of the Scene.

Gear and Alchemy42Brimstone blade  
Reagents: Fine Knife Weapon + Dark Plate + 3x Fire Gem
Effect: Small Melee Weapon, Grants Night Slash, Critical Hits with the weapon inflict the 
Burn Status Effect.
Stampede Boots  
Reagents: Jungle Boots + Cranidos Fossil + 3x Cheri Berry Effect: Boots with Naturewalk (Mountains, Caves), Run Up Ability, and +2 to Paralyze Save Checks.
Thunder Beast Skewer 
Reagents: Fine Polearm Weapon + Manectric Mega Stone + 3xLuxray Fangs Effect:  Large Melee Weapon, grants Thunder Fang and grants Rivalry Ability.
Shadow Walkers  
Reagents: Foot Equipment + Sealed Gengar Soul Effect: Original foot slot equipment effects + grants the Shadow Meld Capability
Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking
Reagents: Fine Longsword + Charizard Mega Stone + 3xColdsteel IngotsEffect: Large Melee Weapon, grants Flametounge (A Fire-Shifted Slash).  Moves used with the 
Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking deal Super Effective damage to Fairy Types.
The Candy Hammer
Reagents:  Fine Warhammer Weapon + tears of a virgin maiden + 3xRare CandiesEffect: Large Melee Weapon, attacks made with The Candy Hammer deal Candy Type Damage 
(Neutral to everything).  Once a day you may lick the Candy Hammer to restore 2 Ticks of Hit Points.

Gear and Alchemy43Kaladanda  
Reagents: Fine Polearm Weapon + Griseous Orb + 3x bottled Spiritomb Souls 
Effect: Large Melee Weapon, grants Phantom Force, Shadow Claw and Shadow Force.  Foes knocked out with this weapon cannot wake again until 24 hours have passed.
Svalinn
Reagents: Heavy Shield + Regice Core + 3x Occa Berry Effect: Heavy Shield, user has immunity to Burn and to Fire Type attacks, allies within 2 me-ters resist Fire one step further.
Y ata no Kagami
Reagents: Mirror + Reshiram’s Light Stone + 2x Fire Gem, 2x Dragon Gem Effect: Off-Hand Item, User is immune to Illusion effects and can tell when someone reflected in the mirror is wearing a disguise or is Transformed.  Once Daily you may force a target looking at the mirror to answer a single question truthfully.
Ruyi Jingu Bang  
Reagents: Fine Staff Weapon + Blessed Fire given by an Infernape Outer God + 3x Fight-ing Gem Effect: Large Melee Weapon, grants Mach Punch, Fire Punch and Brick Break,.  The wielder has Reach 5 when making attacks with this weapon.  At Scene x2 frequency they may use any attack from this weapon with Smite and as a Burst of size 1 to 3 or a Close Blast of size 2 to 4.
Excalibur
Reagents: Fine Longsword Weapon + Steel blessed by Arceus + one of each Type PlateEffect: Small Melee Weapon, grants Sacred Sword and the Regal Challenge Ability.  Y ou may change Sacred Sword’s Type as a Swift Action.  
Chaos Dunker
Reagents: The Candy Hammer + A Diglett’s Lower Body + A Philosopher StoneEffect: Large Melee Weapon, grants Earthquake, Land’s Wrath, and Precipice Blades with the Friendly keyword.  Moves used with Chaos Dunker bypass Ground Immunity.Example Legendary Alchemy Items
While the Badass Fire Sword of Fairy Buttkicking might be awesome, its still not Legendary. These are less like creative alchemy and more like using highly powerful symbolic items, requiring parts from Legendary Pokémon  or Philosopher Stones to conjure the “memory” of a legendary artifact and bring it into existence once more. It is not enough to merely possess the ingredients either - knowledge of the legend behind the item is required as well, and a great deal of personal power. Crafting these is usually accompanied by some sort of ritual or a pilgrimage to a sacred place. 

Gear and Alchemy44Arcane Weapons
Game of Throhs introduces a new kind of weapon:     
Arcane Weapons!  These weapons represent everything from staves, to wands, to magical instruments, and serve as foci for Trainers who favor Special Attacks over normal ones.  A Trainer requires the Arcane Training Feature (found on page 47) in order to wield one of these weapons.
Arcane weapons can come in both the Small  and Large  
Melee variety, and can also be Short  or Long Ranged .  
So it’s totally possible for one Trainer to have a Short 
Ranged Arcane wand, and another to have a Large Melee Arcane staff, for example.
They also come at the same price points for Crude , 
Simple,  and Fine weapons listed in the core book.  All 
Arcane Weapons modify Struggle Attacks to be Special 
Attacks.  Simple and Fine Arcane Weapons also have their own list of Weapon Moves gained at Novice and Expert Rank. Additionally, you qualify for Arcane Weapon Moves and bonus Struggle Attack Damage Bases using Occult Education Ranks, not Combat Ranks.
Additional effects, such as Moves and Abilities, on 
Alchemized Arcane Weapons are not subject to the normal restriction on Typed Damage that normal Arcane Weapons have, nor do they gain Damage Base bonuses from Arcanist’s Soul Bond.
Novice Arcane Weapon Moves
Move : Arcane Fury
Type : Normal
Frequency : EOT
AC: 3
Damage Base 3: 1d6+5 / 9Class: SpecialRange : Cone 2
Effect : Arcane Fury’s Targets become Vulnerable on 
19+.Limitation: None Move : Energy Blast
Type : Normal
Frequency : EOT
AC: 3
Damage Base 4: 1d8+6 / 11Class: SpecialRange : WR, Blast 2
Effect : Y ou gain +1 Special Attack on 19+.
Limitation: None
Move : Energy Sphere
Type : Normal
Frequency : EOT
AC: 3
Damage Base 4: 1d8+6 / 11Class: SpecialRange : Burst 1
Effect : Y ou gain +1 Special Defense Combat Stage on 
19+.Limitation: None
Move : Rending Spell
Type : Normal
Frequency : EOT
AC: 2
Damage Base 3: 1d6+5 / 9 Class: SpecialRange : WR, 1 Target
Effect : The target loses a Tick of Hit Points on 16+.
Limitation: None
Move : Resonance Beam
Type : Normal
Frequency : EOT
AC: 3
Damage Base 4: 1d8+6 / 11Class: SpecialRange : Line 4
Effect : All targets have their Special Defense lowered by 
1 Combat Stage on 20+. This Effect Range is extended by +1 for each foe targeted by this Move.Limitation: None
Gear and Alchemy45Move : Secret Force
Type : Normal
Frequency : EOT
AC: 4
Damage Base 4: 1d8+6 / 11
Class: SpecialRange : Melee, 1 Target, Smite
Effect : When calculating damage, the target subtracts 
their Defense from Secret Force’s damage instead of their Special Defense. Secret Force is still otherwise Special. Limitation: Melee Weapons Only
Expert Arcane Weapon Moves
 Move : Arcane Storm
Type : Normal
Frequency : Scene x2
AC: 2
Damage Base 6: 2d6+8 / 15Class: SpecialRange : WR, Blast 3
Effect : All targets of Arcane Storm are Slowed and 
Vulnerable for 1 Full Round.Limitation: Ranged Weapons only
Move : Bane
Type : Normal
Frequency : Scene x2
AC: 2
Damage Base 4: 1d8+6 / 11Class: SpecialRange : WR, 1 Target
Effect : The target loses a Tick of Hit Points at the start of 
their next three turns and suffers a -2 penalty to all Save Checks on those turns.Limitation: NoneMove : Cone of Force
Type : Normal
Frequency : Scene x2
AC: 2
Damage Base 6: 2d6+8 / 15Class: SpecialRange : Cone 2, Push
Effect : Cone of Force Pushes all targets 2 meters, and 
lowers their Evasion by -2 for 1 full round..Limitation: Melee Weapons Only
Move : Energy Vortex
Type : Normal
Frequency : Scene x2
AC: 4
Damage Base 2: 1d6+3 / 7Class: SpecialRange : WR, 1 Target
Effect : The target is put in a Vortex.
Limitation: None
Move : Magic Burst
Type : Normal
Frequency : Scene x2
AC: 2
Damage Base 6: 2d6+8 / 15Class: SpecialRange : Burst 1, Friendly
Effect : Foes hit by Magic Burst can’t make Attacks of 
Opportunity for 1 full round.Limitation: Melee Weapons Only
Move : Spirit Lance
Type : Normal
Frequency : Scene x2
AC: 2
Damage Base 6: 2d6+8 / 15Class: SpecialRange : Line 6
Effect : Spirit Lance deals +3 damage to all targets for 
each target beyond the first that it successfully hits. Limitation: None
Trainer Classes46
Chapter 3: Trainer 
Classes
In this chapter you’ll find a variety of classes that are very appropriate in a fantasy setting.  These classes have a heavy slant toward Trainer Combat options, so the way they are divided is a little different than the classes in the core book.  
Berserker and Rune Master are more general classes that might be a bit out of place in a modern day game that 
takes heavily after the To-Be-A-Master format, but fit well in most settings.  Arcanist, Fortress, Marksman and Skirmisher are 
weapon specialists; each of these classes embodies 
a style of martial combat that utilizes weapons.  If Trainers carrying around weapons isn’t normal in your setting, these classes might not be very appro-priate for your setting.
Next are the Elementalists, a collection of 18 class-
es that represent Trainers with a supernatural tie to 
a Pokémon type.  These settings fit perfectly for a High Fantasy, high magical shenanigans game.  In a more grounded or gritty game, they might be out of place, or practitioners of them could be hunted and persecuted.  As for why Psychic and Fighting do not have classes listed here, its because we consider Aura Guardian and the Psychic classes in the core book to be their Elementalists.

Trainer Classes47
General Trainer Edges
Weapon of Choice
Prerequisites: A Feature with the [Weapon] tag
StaticEffect : Choose a specific weapon type. Y ou gain a +2  
Bonus on Opposed Rolls to prevent being disarmed  while wielding weapons of your chosen type. If you  would be disarmed anyway, you may pay 1 AP to  prevent yourself from being Disarmed
General Trainer Features
Arcane Training
[+Special Attack][Weapon]Prerequisites: Novice Occult Education, Elemental Connection or Mystic SensesStaticEffect : Y ou may use Arcane Weapons.  Attacks made 
with your Arcane Weapons share the Type of your El-emental Connection.  If you have Mystic Senses, these Attacks deal Normal Type Damage. Arcane Weapon users that qualified through Mystic Senses or Elemen-tal Connection (Normal) gain a +5 Bonus to Damage Rolls  and a +2 Bonus to Effect Range when using Ar -
cane Weapon Attacks. When wielding an Arcane Weap-on, you may resist Disarm Maneuvers with your Occult Education.
 
Smith
[Ranked 2] [+Attack]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Novice Focus, Novice AthleticsRank 2 Prerequisites: Adept Focus, Adept AthleticsRank 1 Effect: Y ou may create Simple Weapons for $1000, Light Shields for $1,500, and Light Armor for $4,000.Rank 2 Effect: Y ou may create Fine Weapons for $2,000, Helmets for $1,125, Heavy Shields for $2,250 and Heavy Armor for $5,000.  Type Sync
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection; a Type-Linked Class*; Adept Medicine, Occult, or Tech Education. Special – Extended ActionTarget: Y our PokémonEffect : The Target gains the Type of your Elemental 
Connection as an additional Type, or has one of their Types replaced by that Type. See the Type Changes sec-tion (page 436) for more information and suggestions. A Pokémon may be targeted by Type Sync only once. This Feature may be performed One Time for each Rank above Untrained you have of your highest of Medicine, Occult, or Tech Education, up to a maximum of 4 times at Master Rank.
*Type-Linked Classes include Type Ace and all 
Elementalist Classes, all of which are linked to their 
respective Types. Additionally, Aura Guardian is linked to Fighting; and Telekinetic, Telepath, and Warper are linked to Psychic. Obviously, your Type Linked Class must match your Elemental Connection to apply for Type Sync!
Work with your Game Master to determine 
what Moves are on the Simple and Fine Weap-ons you create.
Trainer Classes48Berserker
Stories of Berserkers have been passed down through the ages telling of savage warriors who channel their anger 
into a trance-like frenzy.  In reality, the way of the Berserker is more controlled than barbaric; they are warriors who have learned to not only fight through injuries that would hinder most, but also harness that pain as a weapon against their enemies.  While many of these warriors are capable of entering the frenzied battle trance, doing so is something they often strive to avoid.  After all, an angry, injured Ursaring might not be able to tell friend from foe in a heated battle, and neither can they.
Berserker takes some of the ideas from Taskmaster and Enduring Soul and applys them to a Trainer.  They are 
tough to put down, and get stronger the more they get injured.  This class pairs well with classes that like to get in the thick of things, like Fortress, Roughneck and Martial Artist.  It can also work well with more mobile classes like Skirmisher or Ninja by giving them something to fall back on when their mobility is taken away from them, or they jump into more trouble than they were asking for.Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Combat, Intimidate
Trainer Classes49Power of Rage
[+HP]
Prerequisites: BerserkerStaticMoves : Choose Enduring Rage, or White Flame. Y ou 
gain the chosen Ability. 
Lessons In Rage & Pain
[+HP]Prerequisites: Berserker, Adept IntimidateStaticEffect : While you have at least 1 Injury, add +X to your 
Damage Rolls with Rage, Flail, Fury Swipes, Thrash, and Weapon Attacks. X is equal to your Intimidate Rank plus the number of Injuries you have. Y ou do not lose Hit Points from being Heavily Injured, and Injuries beyond the 5th do not lower your Maximum Hit Points. 
Frenzy
[+HP]Prerequisites: Berserker, Adept CombatScene x2 – Free ActionCondition : Y ou must be Enraged to use this Feature
Effect: Y ou may immediately take your turn with Pri-ority. If you do, you are instantly cured of Slowed and Stuck, and for the rest of this turn gain a +2 Bonus to Critical Hit Range, +2 Bonus to Movement Speed, and +2 Bonus to Acrobatics, Athletics, Combat, and Intim-idate Checks.
 Fight On and On
[+HP]
Prerequisites: Lessons in Rage and Pain, Adept CombatDaily – Free ActionTrigger: Y our Hit Points are lowered to or below 0 while Enraged.Effect : Y ou are not Fainted; you instead Faint upon 
reaching -50% of your Max Hit Points. If you have 5 or more injuries, you may use this Feature regardless of Frequency.  
Crash and Smash
[+HP][Weapon]Prerequisites: Frenzy, Expert CombatStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Double Edge and Thrash. 
Y ou may use these moves as a Weapon Attack when wielding Melee Weapons. 
Push it to the Limit
[+HP]Prerequisites: Lessons in Rage and Pain, Expert Intim-idateAt-Will – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou hit with a Berserker Move or Weapon At-tackEffect : Immediately gain one Injury before resolving 
the triggering attack. Y ou gain a Tick of Temporary Hit Points and may cure yourself of a Persistent Status Af-fliction. The triggering attack doubles your damage bo-nus from Lessons in Rage and Pain.Berserker
[Class] [+HP] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Novice Combat, Novice IntimidateStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Rage and Flail.  Y ou may use these moves as a Weapon Attack when wielding 
Melee Weapons.
Trainer Classes50Rune Master
Rune Masters study the mysterious Unown and have gleaned an insight into their powers. They have an affinity 
for the odd creatures, able to call them forth from thin air. Whether they are summoning them from some far off  location or alternate dimension, or whether they have somehow learned to create Unown by their own powers is unknown. 
While Rune Masters have the ability to augment Unown as Pokémon, combining them to allow them to battle to 
greater effect, they also learn a number of ways to use Unown more as occult tools. They can create spy glyphs, set off Hidden Power explosions at a distance, and even create remotely activated sentries. 
Despite the universal focus on Unown, whether or not a Rune Master heavily draws upon use of these Pokémon 
in battle is up to individual preference. Some may be more comfortable battling alongside their large swarms of Unown, linked together with their occult expertise. Others choose to treat them as a reservoir of glyphs, preferring to do  battle with their other Pokémon instead.Travel and Investigation
Passive Pokémon Support
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Occult Education
Trainer Classes51Hidden Power  
[+Attack or Special Attack] 
Prerequisites: Rune MasterStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Move Hidden Power. Whenever 
you use Hidden Power, it may be either Physical or Spe-cial, adding the appropriate Attack Stat. 
Rewrite  
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Hidden PowerDailyTarget: Self or a willing Pokémon with Hidden Power.Effect: Reroll the Type for an instance of Hidden Pow-er the target knows  If you target an Unown, you may transform the target into a different letter. 
Glyph  
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Rune MasterAt-Will – Extended ActionTarget: Y our Unown that is not part of a Prime UnownEffect : Y ou may set the target Unown against any flat 
surface, and turn the Unown into a glyph. Glyphs have HP equal to your Level, and no other stats. Glyphs last until they are  destroyed or intentionally de-activated, at which time the Unown returns to Unown Space, dis-appearing forever. Y ou may have a number of active Glyphs equal to your Occult Education Rank. When setting a Glyph, you may have the Glyphs be either visi-ble or invisible, as you prefer. At any time, as a Standard Action, you may Channel any Glyph youhave set down. This causes the Glyph’s eye to open and become visi-ble if it was not. While you are channeling a Glyph, you are able to see through the Glyph, listen through it, and project your voice through it.  Words of Power
[+Attack or Special Attack]Prerequisites: Adept Occult Education, Hidden PowerStaticTrigger: Y ou or your Pokémon use Hidden PowerEffect: Instead of a Burst, you may choose to have Hid-den Power be a 1 Target Melee, 1 Target 6m, or Cone 2. Additionally, you and your Prime Unown always have STAB on Hidden Power as if you or they were of the same Type.  
Alarm Runes  
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: GlyphBind 1 AP – Standard ActionTarget: A Glyph you have put down, regardless of dis-tanceEffect : Y ou give the Glyph a Trigger, which may be as 
vague or as precise as you like (i.e.: “If anyone enters the room” , “if James peeks in my diary” , “If a Torkoal uses Surf while I scream the word ‘Gelato’”). If the trigger is met within the Rune’s 30 meters, the Rune will become visible, and will begin screeching loudly, alerting any-one nearby. Y ou are capable of hearing this screeching noise in your head, regardless of your current distance. Glyphs will remember their Triggers as long as the AP spent on the Feature is Bound. If you have the Explosive Runes or Sentry Runes Features, you may instruct this Glyph to  automatically use the chosen Feature as a Free Action when it is triggered if you have the AP to spend. Y ou may have only one Glyph use Explosive Runes per round, even if multiple Runes are triggered at the same time. Rune Master 
[Class] [+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Own 2 Unown, Novice Occult EducationStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Gather Unown capability, and your Unown gain the Letter Press Capability. When using 
Gather Unown, you are treated as a level 20 Pokémon.  
Trainer Classes52Explosive Runes  
[+Attack or Special Attack] 
Prerequisites: Adept Occult Education, Glyph, Hidden Power1 AP – Standard ActionTarget: A Glyph you have put down, regardless of dis-tanceEffect : Y ou may use Hidden Power, originating the at-
tack from the location of the targeted Glyph. Use your own Stats and Hidden Power values to calculate dam-age. Using this Feature causes the Glyph to become vis-ible and glow for a minute afterwards. Sentry Runes 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Expert Occult Education, Explosive Runes, Hidden Power1 AP – Standard ActionTarget: A Glyph you have put down, regardless of dis-tanceEffect : The target Glyph becomes an Unown of your 
Trainer Level, its Stats allocated as you wish. This Un-own knows a single instance of Hidden Power, identical to your own. The Glyph can fight on its own without needing you to command it. At the end of the encoun-ter, or after 5 minutes, the Unown returns to Unown Space forever, destroying the Glyph. Y ou may only have one Glyph active in this way at a time; if various Alarm Glyphs are triggered to become Sentries at the same time, only one does so; the others will do so once the previous one has been destroyed if the Trigger condi-tion is still being met.
What’s a Prime Unown Look like?
This is a pretty common question, so we’ve included an art piece that’s pretty close to what 
we imagine.  It’s five seperate unowns that have been bound into one entity through a su-pernatural means!  Whether they are actually touching or just bound by magic is likely up to the traditions of the rune master.  
Trainer Classes53Arcanist
When it comes to supernatural combat, some are simply dabblers.  They might have been born with a knack 
for telekinesis, Aura manipulation or an elemental connection, but whatever talent they have with it was sim-ply what they were born with.  Others, like Rune Masters or Hex Maniacs, put the effort to learn and hone their skills like any other profession.  Arcanists are those who have taken these talents to the next level, and learned how to weaponize them.  Using arcane foci, such as staves, wands, and in some cases musical instruments, they both amplify their attacks and channel new ones through their foci.
While Arcanist can stand on its own feet mechanically as a weapon specialist class, it shines as a support pick up 
for a Trainer who has invested in another Special Attack class.  Anything from Aura Guardian to Windrunner, and even Musician, can make great use of what Arcanist has to offer.Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Occult Education
Trainer Classes54Metamagic
[+Special Attack]
Prerequisites: Arcanist, Adept Occult Education1 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou use a Special MoveEffect :  Y ou may apply a Rank 1 Power Manipulation to 
your attack. 
Authentic Thaumaturgy
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Arcanist, Expert Occult EducationScene x2 – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou use a Special MoveEffect : Y ou may apply a Rank 2 Power Manipulation to 
your attack 
Signature Manipulations
[Ranked 2] [+Special Attack]Rank 1 Prerequisites: MetamagicRank 2 Prerequisites: Authentic ThaumaturgyStaticEffect : Each Rank, select a Power Manipulation of the 
same Signature Manipulation Rank you are taking or lower.  •	For Rank 1 Manipulations, this Manipulation may be used twice per Scene without spending AP to ac-tivate. 
•	For Rank 2 Manipulations, this Manipulation may be used once per Scene without activating Authen-tic Thaumaturgy’s Frequency. Recoup Energy
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Arcanist, Expert Occult EducationScene x2 – Free ActionTrigger: Y our Special Move misses all targetsEffect : Y ou do not expend the Frequency of the trig-
gering Move. If you applied a Power Manipulation to the triggering Move, you are refunded the AP for the Manipulation or do not expend the Frequency for it.
 
Soul Investment
[+Special Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Arcanist, Master Occult EducationBind 2 AP – Extended Action Target: Y our Soul Bonded WeaponEffect : Choose one Novice and one Expert Arcane 
Weapon Move. Y our Soul Bonded Weapon adds those Moves to your Move List as long as this Feature is Bound. Y ou may only Bind one instance of this Feature at a time, and you may not have multiple instances of the same Move in your Move List.Arcanist
[Class] [+Special Attack] [Weapon] Prerequisites: Arcane TrainingAt-Will – Extended ActionTarget: An Arcane WeaponEffect:  Y ou create a Soul Bond with the target Weapon. Y ou may make a Soul Bond with only one weapon at a 
time. If you create a new Soul Bond, previously Soul Bound weapons lose the Bond. Soul Bound Weapons gain the following benefits:•	Increase the Damage Base and Effect Range of Struggle Attacks and Arcane Weapon Moves made with your Soul Bonded Weapon by +1 for each Occult Education Rank you have above Novice, up to a maximum of +3 at Master Rank.  
•	As a Shift Action, you may beckon your Soul Bonded Weapon to your hands if it is within 10 meters. If it is being held by someone else who does not want to let go of the weapon, make an Occult vs Athletics Op-posed Check. If you win, they their lose grip on your Weapon and it flies to your hand as normal.
Trainer Classes55Rank 1 Power Manipulations
Energy Finesse
Condition: The triggering Move is an Arcane Weapon Move and has an Effect Range
Effect: In addition to its existing Effect Range, the Effect triggers on all natural Even-Numbered Rolls.
Warp Energy
Condition: The triggering Move is a Cone, Line, Burst, or BlastEffect: Instead of its usual range, you may use the Move as if it had a range of Burst 1, Cone 2, Close Blast 2, Line 
4, or 2-Target with a range of 4.
Directed Barrier
Effect: Y ou gain Damage Reduction equal to your Tick Value against the targets of the triggering Move for one full 
round. 
Power Overdrive
Effect: If the triggering attack hits, you lose a Tick of Hit Points, and the triggering attack deals bonus damage 
equal to your Tick Value plus your Occult Education Rank. This loss of Hit Points cannot be prevented in any way. 
Rank 2 Power Manipulations 
Berserk Blow
Condition: The Triggering Move is 1-TargetEffect: The Move causes the target to become Vulnerable for 1 full round, and the Move’s Critical Hit Range is 
increased by +3.
Energy Link
Effect: For one full round, the next Normal-Type attack to hit the target instead deals Damage of the same Type 
as this Attack. If the Attack Energy Link was applied to was already Normal-Typed, for one full round, the next Normal-Type attack to hit the target instead deals damage as if it was one step more Super-Effective.
Enlarged Power
Effect: The Move gains the keyword Burst 1 if Melee 1-Target, or Blast 2 if ranged 1-Target. If the Move is already 
a Burst, Blast, Cone, or Line, increase the size of the Move’s Range by 1.
Lock of Fate 
Effect: The Move cannot be Intercepted, and targets may not avoid the attack in any way if hits (such as via Dodge, 
Parry, Shield Moves, etc). Evasion still applies, and the Move can still Miss.
Trainer Classes56Fortress
Knights, Myrmidons, Landsknechts, Braves, Samurai, Warriors.  They’ve been known by many names throughout 
the centuries and various cultures of the world, so we’ve given them a singular one.  Fortresses are heavily armored weapon specialists who focus on front line combat and protecting their allies from harm.  Some favor the classic sword and shield, others a massive two handed weapon, but their goal is the same: to hold the line and to defeat their foes.
The Fortress is in both name and function a tank.  They excel at drawing fire to themselves and mitigating the 
damage they do take.  This class pairs well with almost any Fighting Class, and can also make a great pickup for a  Trainer who is Pokémon Support focused and wants to take on a proactive, defensive role in combat.  Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Combat, Focus
Trainer Classes57Slow or Steady
[+Defense]
Prerequisites: FortressStaticEffect : Choose Analytic or Battle Armor. Y ou gain the 
chosen ability. 
Stalwart Bastion
[+Defense]Prerequisites: FortressBind 2 AP  – Standard ActionEffect : While this Feature is Bound, you and all 
cardinally adjacent allies gain Damage Reduction equal to your Combat or Focus Rank. 
Shield Bearer
[+Defense]Prerequisites: Stalwart Bastion1 AP – Swift ActionEffect : Y ou may immediately ready a Shield, and do not 
become Slowed as a result. Y ou may choose to grant an adjacent Ally the Evasion and Damage Reduction bonuses from your shield instead of gaining them yourself, but these bonuses only apply as long as the ally remains adjacent to you. If you do and the ally Shifts, you may Shift alongside your ally as a Shift Action Interrupt. This cannot cause you to shift more than your normal Movement.Wall of Iron
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Fortress, Adept Combat or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou learn the moves Iron Defense and Protect.
  
Guardian’s Punishment
[+Defense]Prerequisites: Fortress, Expert Combat or FocusScene x2 – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit a Marked Foe with a Damaging Weapon attackEffect : Add your Defense Stat to the Damage Roll. The 
Marked Foe takes a penalty to Damage Rolls equal to your Combat or Focus Rank for 1 full round.  
Unstoppable Will
[+Defense]Prerequisites: Slow or Steady, Expert Combat or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Discipline Ability. Fortress
[Class] [+Defense] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Novice Combat, Novice FocusAt Will - Free ActionTrigger: Y ou target an enemy with a Struggle attack or Weapon Attack and end your turn adjacent to the target.Effect : Y ou Mark all targets of the attack until the end of your next turn. Marked foes take a penalty to Attack 
Rolls against any targets besides you equal to your Focus Rank. A Mark from a different source (such as a second Fortress or a Fighting Type Ace’s Pokémon) will overwrite your Mark.
Trainer Classes58Marksman
Since ancient times, men has hunted and protected itself with projectiles.  From throwing weapons, to bow and ar -
row, to crossbow and firearm, the art of combat has always respected the ability to down a foe from a safe distance.    
Marksmen are practitioners of this tradition, taking aim of their targets and waiting for the precise moment to strike.
The Marksman is the class of choice for a Trainer looking to be an archer or musketeer.  It offers a number of ways 
to make your Ranged Weapon attacks get more bang for their buck.Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Combat, Perception
Trainer Classes59Aiming Down The Sights
[+Attack] [Weapon]
Prerequisites: MarksmanAt Will – Shift ActionEffect : Y our next Weapon Attack with a long-range 
Weapon gains +2 to its Accuracy Roll and Critical Hit Range.  This effect lasts until used or until the start of your next turn. 
Double Shot
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Marksman, Adept Combat1 AP – Standard ActionEffect : Y ou may make two Struggle Attacks with a -2 
penalty to Accuracy, each targeting the same foe. If the first attack gains the benefit of Aiming Down the Sights or Clear Shot, the second attack also gains the same benefits for free.  
Overwatch
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Marksman, Adept Perception or CombatAt-Will – Standard ActionEffect : Create a Line X, and place a Blast 3 with at least 
three meters overlapping the Line’s area. X is equal to your Weapon’s Range. For one full round, if a foe moves in or out of that area, you may make a Ranged Weapon attack, Frequency allowing, against that foe as a Free Ac-tion. Y ou may not attack a specific foe more than once per round this way. While this is in effect, if you Move from your current location, Overwatch’s effect is lost. Clear Shot
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Marksman, Expert Perception or CombatScene x2 – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou make a ranged Weapon Attack against a target with no other combatants or Rough or Blocking Terrain within 2 metersEffect : The target is considered Vulnerable against this 
attack, and you increase your Critical Hit range by +4 for this attack.  
Crippling Shot
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Marksman, Expert Perception or Combat2 AP – Full ActionEffect : Make a Ranged Struggle Attack attack with a -2 
penalty to Accuracy. If you hit, the attack deals Dam-age as if it was resisted one step, but the target becomes Slowed, loses 1 Speed Combat Stage, and you initiate a Trip Maneuver against the target. Y ou may use your Perception Skill to resolve the Opposed Check if you wish.  
Dead-Eye Shot
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Marksman, Master Combat or PerceptionScene x2 – Standard, PriorityEffect : Use of Dead-Eye Shot must be declared at the 
start of the round.  Nothings happens at this time. At the end of the round, the user may use their Shift Ac-tion, and then make a Ranged Weapon Attack and roll twice for Accuracy. Y ou may resolve the attack using ei-ther result, but if you choose to use the lower result and the attack hits, it is automatically a Critical Hit.Marksman
[Class] [+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Novice Combat, Novice PerceptionStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Sniper Ability.
Trainer Classes60Skirmisher
Some weapon specialists are more quick than they are mighty, favoring to outmaneuver  their opponent and strike 
where they are weakest.  Utilizing smaller, more nimble weapons, they dance around the battlefield and their enemies alike.  These scrappy fighters are known as Skirmishers, and where they lack brawn, they make up for in alacrity and precision.
Skirmisher covers a variety of combat styles, including swashbuckling pirates, fencing duelists, and nimble assas-
sins and ninjas.  They make great use of movement and pair well with classes that give Trainers mobility bonuses.  Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Acrobatics, Combat
Trainer Classes61Nimble Steps
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: SkirmisherStaticEffect : Y ou may perform the Disengage Maneuver as a 
Swift Action. 
Counter Stance
[+Speed]Prerequisites: SkirmisherAt-Will – Free Action, InterruptTrigger: An adjacent foe misses you with an attackEffect : Y ou perform an Attack of Opportunity against 
them.  
Harrier
[+Speed]Prerequisites: SkirmisherAt-Will – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou hit a foe with a damaging AttackEffect : Until the end of your next turn, that foe is con-
sidered Flanked, is Slowed, and cannot take actions as Priority or Interrupt. Harrier may only be used on a foe once per Scene. Weapon Finesse
[+Speed] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Counter Stance, Adept Combat or Acro-batics2 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit a foe with a Weapon Attack.Effect : After the attack is resolved, you may immediate-
ly use a Disarm, Trip, or Push Maneuver against that foe as a Free Action. The Maneuver automatically hits, but you must still make an Opposed Roll.  
Outmaneuver
[+Speed]Prerequisites: Harrier, Adept Combat or AcrobaticsScene x3 – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou use a damaging AttackEffect : Add half your Evasion to your Accuracy Roll for 
the attack, and all foes hit by the attack have their Initia-tive reduced by your full Evasion value. 
Swift Strikes
[+Speed] [Weapon]Prerequisites: 4 Skirmisher Features, Master Combat or Acrobatics1 AP – Standard Action, SpecialEffect : Use a Weapon Attack as if it had the Priority Key-
word. If the Move already had the Priority Keyword, use it as if it had the Priority (Advanced) Keyword instead. Skirmisher
[Class] [+Speed] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Novice Combat, Novice AcrobaticsStaticEffect : Choose Flutter or Vanguard. Y ou gain the Chosen Ability. 
Trainer Classes62Bug Elementalist: 
Swarmlord
Some trainers like to collect Bug Pokémon, and support them in battle. Others instead seek to emulate and com-mand them. Swarmlords are trainers who have undergone a manifestation of Bug-type elemental power, taking on either the aspects of the arachnid hunters, or the traits of the proud, winged monarchs. Such manifestations are not always physically apparent, but the Swarmlord may take on certain features when using their powers - whether it be their eyes splitting to have multiple irises, or sprouting tiny hairs from their fingertips. Swarmlords tend to be resourceful and charismatic individuals, and can be utterly relentless in battle - striking again and again while emitting pheromones that subtly guide their attacks towards the enemy’s weak points - and teaching them what happens when you try and take on a Swarm.Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Command, Survival
Trainer Classes63Swarmlord
[Class]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Bug), Novice Survival, Novice CommandStaticEffect : Y our powers begin to take after either Arachnid's Embrace or Monarch's Embrace. Depending on your 
Embrace, you gain an Ability and Stat Tag. Whenever you gain a Swarmlord Feature, you gain the same Stat Tag.  
How To Shoot Web
Prerequisites: SwarmlordStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Threaded and Wallclimber Capa-
bilities.  
Broodlord
Prerequisites: Enhanced Embrace Rank 2, Expert Command or SurvivalStaticEffect : Y ou gain the following Ability based on your 
Embrace. Arachnid’s Embrace:  Tinted Lens
 Monarch’s Embrace:  Compound Eyes
 Pheromone Markers
Prerequisites: Enhanced Embrace Rank 11 AP – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou hit a foe with a damaging Bug-Type attackEffect : The triggering foe gains 1 Pheromone Stack. Y our 
Bug-Type attacks gain a +2 bonus to Accuracy Rolls and +1 Critical Hit range against foes for each Pheromone Stack they have. Once per Scene per foe, when they gain their third or higher Pheromone Stack, you may choose to roll 1d6. On a result of 1 or 2, the foe becomes Con-fused; on a result of 3 or 4 the foe becomes Suppressed; on a result of 5 or 6 the foe becomes Enraged. 
Enhanced Embrace
Rank 1 Prerequisites: SwarmlordRank 2 Prerequisites: Adept Command or SurvivalRank 3 Prerequisites: Expert Command or SurvivalStaticEffect : Learn two Moves from the list below at the Rank 
of Enhanced Embrace you are taking or lower. Moves marked with an Embrace require that Embrace to be chosen. 
Rank 1 Moves
Move Prerequisites
Defend Order None
Fury Cutter None
Fell Needle None
Struggle Bug Monarch
Sticky Web ArachnidRank 2 Moves
Move Prerequisites
Attack Order Arachnid
Infestation None
Powder Monarch
Signal Beam None
Steamroller None
 Rank 3 Moves
Move Prerequisites
Bug Buzz None
Mega Horn None
Quiver Dance Monarch
Spider Web ArachnidArachnid’s Embrace Unnerve [+Attack]
Monarch’s Embrace Shield Dust [+Special Attack]
Trainer Classes64
Mankind has long been afraid of the dark. Without the light, once familiar spaces can become difficult to navigate. 
Creatures of the night emerge from their dens and begin to go on the prowl for their next meal. And those poor souls who get caught in the wrong place, at the wrong time, become swallowed by it, never to be seen again. The Shade Caller is not one such soul. These trainers embrace the Dark, and revel in it. The lightless areas of the gloom are their playground, a medium they move through more easily than fish through water. Their attacks may come from anywhere, and strike with unnatural precision. They are the night. They are Shade Callers.Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Dark Elementalist: Shade Caller
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Guile, Stealth
Trainer Classes65Shade Caller 
[Class] [+Attack or Special Attack]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Dark), Novice Guile, Novice StealthStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Faint Attack and Snarl.  
Twisted Soul
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Shade CallerStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Twisted Power Ability.
 
Living Shadow 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Shade CallerStaticEffect : Y our own Shadow can attack others; you may 
have your Dark Type Moves originate from any Square adjacent to you. If you are fighting among complete darkness, you may have your Dark Type Moves origi-nate from any square within X meters that is completely dark, where X is the higher of your Guile or Stealth Rank.  Attacks originating from Living Shadow do not trigger effects that rely on being hit with a melee attack. 
Sharpen Shadows 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Shade Caller, Expert Guile or StealthStaticEffect : Y ou learn Dark Pulse and Night Slash
 
Heart of Darkness 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Sharpen Shadows, Master Guile or StealthStaticEffect : Y ou learn Night Daze and Punishment
 World of Darkness 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Shade Caller, Adept Guile or Stealth2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : Y ou create a zone of Shifting Darkness in a Burst 
2 around you, which persists until the end of the en-counter. All targets without Darkvision attacking from or i nto the Shifting Darkness receive a -3 penalty to Ac-curacy. Y ou may count Shifting Darkness as complete darkness for the purposes of activating your Living Shadow.  As a Static effect, you also gain the Darkvision Capability. 
Dark Soul 
[+Attack or Special Attack]  Prerequisites: Shade Caller, Master Guile or StealthStaticEffect : Choose Shadow Tag or Super Luck. Y ou gain the 
chosen Ability. 
Trainer Classes66
Pride. A defining trait of the dragons, and for good reason - their strength is unparalleled, their heritage ancient, 
and their weaknesses few. Why shouldn’t they be proud? Dragons are the mightiest creatures on Earth, and they know it. Similarly, humans who have inherited the will of the dragon might themselves be Heralds of Pride. With unrelenting force they strike, and with a regal demeanor they walk. They know their attitude is not simple arro-gance, for they have the strength and the will to back it up. They will earn the respect they deserve, or through the fire and the flames their foes will carry on.Trainer CombatDragon Elementalist: Herald of Pride
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Command, IntimidateTrainer Combat

Trainer Classes67Herald of Pride
[Class] [+Attack] [Weapon]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Dragon), Novice Command, Novice IntimidateStaticEffect : When wielding Melee Weapons, you may use Command or Intimidate instead of Combat to determine 
the Damage Base of your Struggle Attacks, to resist Disarm Maneuvers, and to qualify for a Weapon’s Moves. Y our Weapon Attacks ignore Damage Reduction up to your Command or Intimidate Rank. 
Noblesse Oblige 
[+Attack] Prerequisites: Herald of PrideStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Regal Challenge Ability.
Channel the Dragon’s Spirit
[+Attack]Prerequisites: Herald of Pride1 AP – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou use a Weapon Attack Effect : Y ou may have the triggering attack deal Dragon-
Type Damage if you wish. On 18+, all targets can only use At-Will Frequency Moves for one full round 
Bare the Dragon’s Claws
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Herald of Pride, Adept Command or IntimidateStaticEffect : Y our learn the Moves Dragon Claw and Dragon 
Tail. Y ou may use these Moves as Weapon Attacks when wielding Melee Weapons. 
Call the Dragon’s Rage
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Bare the Dragon’s Claws, Master Com-mand or IntimidateStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Dragon Rush and Outrage. 
Y ou may use these Moves as Weapon Attacks when wielding Melee Weapons.Rouse the Dragon’s Blood
[+Attack]Prerequisites: Herald of Pride, Expert Command or IntimidateScene x2 – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou suffer a Critical Hit or gain an Injury from a foe’s attackEffect : For 1 full round, the next Herald of Pride Move 
you use against the triggering foe cannot miss, cannot be Intercepted, and effects that would cause it to miss cannot be activated against it. 
 
Sovereignty
[+Attack]Prerequisites: Herald of Pride, Expert Command or IntimidateBind 2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : While this Feature is bound, you gain a +2 Bonus 
to Save Checks against Volatile Status Afflictions, and a +2 Bonus to Opposed Checks when defending against being Disarmed, Grappled, Pushed, or Tripped. 
Trainer Classes68
Bzzzap! Electricity is the element of motion. Leap here, crackle there, sizzle and spark… and when the time is right 
- leap out and strike in a flash! The so-called Spark Masters take this to heart themselves, overcharging the electric-ity in their bodies to unprecedented levels. These guys are quick and don’t let much slow them down - whether the obstacle to overcome is merely distance or even gravity itself, with their electromagnetic prowess. Don’t call them attention-deficit though, it takes a lot of focus to safely channel several thousand volts of electricity. Underestimate the fast and formidable Spark Masters, and you might just find lightning will strike you twice… or three or four times!Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Electric Elementalist: Spark Master
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Acrobatics, Focus
Trainer Classes69Spark Master
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Electric), Novice Focus, Novice AcrobaticsStaticEffect : Choose Static or Electrodash.  Y ou gain the Chosen Ability. 
Magnetize  
[+Speed] Prerequisites: Storm Wizard Rank 1, Adept AcrobaticsStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Magnetic Capability and may use 
this magnetism to stick to surfaces with significant met-al content (ex: metal walls obviously, concrete with met-al I-beams inside, etc). Y ou may use your Overland to traverse any such surfaces, even if that means walking vertically up a wall or upside down on a ceiling. Y ou may choose not to be Pushed when on such a surface. 
Body of Lightning 
[+Speed] Prerequisites: Master Acrobatics or FocusStaticEffect : Choose Volt Absorb or Motor Drive. Y ou gain 
the Chosen Ability.  
Bottled Lightning 
 [+Speed] Prerequisites: Storm Wizard Rank 1, Adept Focus2 AP - Standard ActionTarget: An item made of conductive materialEffect : Choose one of your Electric Type Moves with a 
target. Y ou Charge the target item with this Move. Bot-tled Lightning counts as using the Move for frequency purposes. Y ou may expend this Charge as a Swift Ac-tion on your turn to use the Move the item was charged with, originating from the item. If a Pokémon or Train-er touches a Charged item, you may instead activate this Swift Action as if it had the Priority keyword. At the end of a Scene, all items lose their Charge, and you may only have X items Charged at a time where X is half your Focus Rank. Storm Wizard
[Ranked 3] [+Speed]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Spark MasterRank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Acrobatics or FocusRank 3 Prerequisites: Master Acrobatics or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou may learn two Moves from the list below, 
marked with the Storm Wizard Rank you are gaining or lower.  
Rank 1 Moves Rank 2 Moves Rank 3 Moves
Charge Beam Charge Discharge
Eerie Impulse Thunder PunchThunder
Shock Wave Thunderbolt Thunder Wave
Spark – Volt Tackle
Trainer Classes70
Fairy Elementalist: 
Glamour Weaver
Fairies are one of the most mysterious groups among Pokémon. Shimmering, dancing lights leading to dancing Pokémon within circles of stones or mushrooms… Who are these creatures? Why do they frolic so cutely? Why can these creatures of fable withstand the might of Dragons? Few know the secrets to these questions, and fewer still are those who know the origins of the fey-aligned ‘magical girls’ that emulate the illusionary powers of these mysterious beings. These so called Glamour Weavers bend the line between fact and fiction, taking on a fey aspect in their Enchanting Transformations… Are their hearts pure, or do their glamours mask their true selves as well? Only the Glamour Weavers can answer that question...Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Charm, Occult Education
Trainer Classes71Glamour Weaver
[Class] [+Special Attack]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Fairy), Novice Charm, Novice Occult EducationStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Sweet Kiss and Disarming Voice. 
Fey Law
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Glamour Weaver1 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit a foe with a damaging Fairy attackEffect : Choose one of the following: Status-Class, 
Combat Maneuver, attacks with an unmodified Damage Base 10 or higher, or an Elemental Type. The triggering foe is Bound; they suffer a -X penalty to all rolls made to use attacks with the chosen trait. X is equal to half your Charm or Occult Education Rank. The Bound condition lasts until the end of a Scene. Y ou may unbind someone as a Free Action at any time. A target may not have multiple instances of Bound applied at once.
Passionato Harmony
[+Special Attack] Prerequisites: Glamour Weaver, Expert Charm or Occult EducationStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Dazzling Gleam and 
Draining Kiss.
Lucky Clover Grand Finale
[+Special Attack] Prerequisites: Passionato Harmony, Master Charm or Occult EducationStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Moonblast and Aromatic 
Mist.
Glamour Mastery
[+Special Attack] Prerequisites: 4 Glamour Weaver FeaturesStaticEffect : Choose Magic Guard or Magic Bounce. Y ou 
gain the Chosen Ability.Enchanting Transformation
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Glamour WeaverBind 2 AP – Shift ActionEffect : Y ou perform a magical transformation on 
yourself. While this Feature is Bound, you gain +5 Damage Resistance against Dragon, Fighting, Dark, and Bug-Typed attacks and your Glamour Weaver Moves have the additional effects below. 
 »Sweet Kiss: Sweet Kiss ignores Speed Evasion. 
 »Disarming Voice: Y ou may also choose to use Disarming Voice as a Line 4 or Cone 2. 
 »Dazzling Gleam: On Even-Numbered rolls, targets hit by Dazzling Gleam have their Accuracy Lowered by 1. 
 »Draining Kiss: Y ou gain an additional Tick of Hit Points when gaining Hit Points from Draining Kiss.
 »Moonblast : Whenever Moonblast misses a target, 
they lose a Tick of Hit Points. 
 »Aromatic Mist: All allies affected by Aromatic Mist gain a +2 bonus to their next Save Check.
Magical Burst
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Enchanting Transformation, Passionato HarmonyScene – Standard ActionCondition : Y ou must have Enchanting Transformation 
Bound to use Magical BurstEffect : Use a Glamour Weaver Move as if it had the 
range Burst 3, Friendly, Exhaust, Smite. All allies within the area-of-effect gain a Tick of Temporary Hit Points or cure themselves of one Volatile Affliction. Enchanting Transformation immediately becomes Unbound, and the AP used to bind it becomes spent instead of becoming available again. 
Trainer Classes72
Fire Elementalist: 
Fire Bringer
Trainer Combat
One legend holds that fire was once the sole dominion of the gods, until one of their own stole it to give its power to man. Whatever truth may lay in this tale, fire has been one of the most important elements used by humans - providing the steps for improved nutrition, hygiene, and shelter, as well as being the force that allowed humanity to bend and conquer metal. Both nurturing and destructive, the aptly-named Fire Bringers channel this primal force in decidedly the latter fashion. Channeling their inner destructive might, these Elementalists will not rest until their enemy burns with the same passion they do - literally - as they intensify the crispy injuries their attacks already do. Play with fire, and you’re gonna have a bad day.Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Combat, Focus
Trainer Classes73Fire Bringer
[Class] [+Attack or Special Attack]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Fire), Novice CombatStaticEffect: Choose two of Flame Burst, Flame Wheel, Flame Charge, or Will-O-Wisp. Y ou learn the chosen Moves
Fiery Soul 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Fire BringerStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Heater Capability, and are immune 
to the Burn condition.  
Firebrand 
[+Attack or Special Attack]Prerequisites: Fire Bringer, Adept Focus or CombatStaticEffect : Y our Fire-Type Moves Burn Targets on a roll of 
19+. If a move already has a chance of Burning foes, Firebrand increases the effect range by +2. 
Burning Passion 
[+Attack or Special Attack]Prerequisites: Fire Bringer, Expert Focus or CombatStaticEffect : Choose Flash Fire or Flame Body. Y ou gain the 
chosen Ability. 
Blazing Inferno
[+Attack or Special Attack]Prerequisites: Fire Breather Rank 2, Master Focus or Combat2 AP – Swift ActionEffect : Y ou becoming Blazing. While you are Blaz-
ing, whenever your Fire-Type Moves Inflict Burn, the Burned target immediately loses a Tick of Hit Points, and loses an additional Combat Stage in Defense. While Blazing, when you hit a foe with a damaging Fire-Type Move, you may choose to automatically burn one target of the Move. If you do, you lose the Blazing Condition after the Move’s effects are resolved.Fire Breather 
[Ranked 2] [+Attack or Special Attack]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Expert Focus or CombatRank 2 Prerequisites: Master Focus or CombatStaticEffect : Learn two Fire Bringer Moves from the list be-
low. Y ou may choose any Move marked with the Fire Breather Rank you are taking or lower.
Rank 1 Moves Rank 2 Moves
Flamethrower Blaze Kick
Fire Punch Fiery Dance
Fire Spin Flare Blitz
Sunny Day Heat Wave
Trainer Classes74
Flying Elementalist: 
Wind Runner
Of all the limits the world places on its denizens, gravity is the force that struggles to keep a three dimensional world flatly in the second. Breaking free of these chains and soaring high above the world - that is what Wind Runners yearn to do. While they can’t outright fly for very long, these masters of the wind can hover, as well as temporarily break their shackles, joining their Flying-type brethren in the air, or challenging them there. So keen is their connection with the sky, that the very breeze is said to be as the tips of their fingers, letting little lay out of their grasp. Those lucky trainers whose hearts have learned to fly free - they are the Wind Runners.Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Acrobatics, Perception
Trainer Classes75Wind Runner
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Flying), Novice Acrobatics, Novice PerceptionStaticEffect: Y ou gain the Levitate Ability. Y ou have a total Levitate Speed equal to 4 plus half of the higher of your 
Acrobatics or Perception Rank.
One With the Winds 
[+Speed] Prerequisites: Adept PerceptionBind 2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : Y ou summon a windy breeze that follows you 
around. Y our sense of touch is extended through this wind, and you can guide it by thought, using it to per -
ceive the shape and texture of objects as long as the wind can reach, even through very small cracks and holes. The range of this effect is equal to your Acrobatics Rank plus Perception Rank in meters. 
Flight
[+Speed]Prerequisites: One With the Winds, Adept Acrobatics1 AP – Swift ActionEffect : Y ou gain a Sky Speed equal to your Levitate 
Speed plus your Acrobatics or Perception Rank for the remainder of the round. 
Gale Speed 
 [+Speed] Prerequisites: Raging Winds Rank 1, Master Acrobatics or PerceptionStaticEffect : Choose Celebrate or Gale Wings. Y ou gain the 
chosen Ability. Raging Winds
[Ranked 3]  [+Speed]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Wind RunnerRank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Acrobatics or PerceptionRank 3 Prerequisites: Master Acrobatics or PerceptionStaticEffect : Y ou may learn two Moves from the list below, 
marked with the Raging Winds Rank you are gaining or lower.
Rank 1 Moves Rank 2 Moves Rank 3 Moves
Aerial Ace Air Slash Brave Bird
Air Cutter Bounce Hurricane
Gust Defog Mirror Move
Tailwind Feather Dance Sky Attack
Trainer Classes76
Ghost Elementalist: 
Apparition
Spooky, scary skeletons don’t send shivers down their spines - the Apparitions are trainers with an intense connec-tion to the spiritual Ghost type and an inclination to a knife in the dark. As ephemeral as the mischievous souls that still walk the realm, these gifted tow the line between this world and the next. These haunting Elementalists are known to be able to take on ghastly forms, free of the restrictions of their flesh, attack with ghostly remnants of themselves, and partially pass through even the thickest armor with their attacks. Beware the Apparition, or you may just feel their hand on your shoulder… or their blade between your ribs.Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Intimidate, Occult Education
Trainer Classes77Apparition
[Class] [+Attack] [Weapon]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Ghost), Novice Intimidate, Novice Occult EducationStaticEffect : When wielding Melee Weapons, you may use Occult Education or Intimidate instead of Combat to 
determine the Damage Base of your Struggle Attacks, to resist Disarm Maneuvers, and to qualify for a Weapon’s Moves. Y our Weapon Attacks always treat you as having the Reach Capability, and foes may not activate Reaction effects against them that specify being hit by a Melee Attack.
Shadow Arms
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: ApparitionStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Shadow Punch and Shad-
ow Sneak. Y ou may use these as Weapon Attacks when wielding Melee Weapons. 
T oo Spooky
[+Attack]Prerequisites: ApparitionStaticEffect : Choose Pressure or Frighten. Y ou gain the cho-
sen Ability.
Silent Assassin
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Apparition, Adept Intimidate or Occult EducationBind 2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : While this Feature is Bound, your Struggle 
Attacks and Weapon Attacks deal Ghost-Type Damage, and you gain the Dead Silent Capability. 
Shadow Form 
[+Attack] Prerequisites: Silent Assassin, Expert Intimidate or Occult Education Bind 2 AP – Swift ActionEffect : While this Feature is Bound, your appearance 
becomes wan and obviously otherworldly. Y our natural Weaknesses, Resistances, and Immunities change to match that of the Ghost Type. Additionally, while in Shadow Form, you are immune to the Cursed Status (if you were previously Cursed, you are instantly cured upon going into Shadow Form) and gain the Phasing Capability. Y ou may unbind this Feature as a Swift  Action, returning to your normal appearance.Phantom Menace 
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Shadow Arms, Expert Intimidate or Occult EducationStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Moves Shadow Claw and Phantom 
Force. Y ou may use these Moves as Weapon Attacks when wielding Melee Weapons.
Haunted Wounds
[+Attack] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Shadow Arms, Master Intimidate or Occult EducationScene x2 – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou hit with an Apparition Move or Ghost-Typed Weapon Attack
Effect : After one full round, repeat the triggering 
attack against one target as a Free Action, regardless of range. If this attack hits, it deals damage as if it were resisted one step further. Haunted Wounds may only affect a target once per Scene.
Trainer Classes78
Grass Elementalist: 
Druid
Druids are trainers in-tune with that which grows in the earth. Some may herald themselves as protectors of na-ture, others as mere observers. Y et others still might only be interested in the power that the untamed wilderness can offer them. But all have the same in common - they are one with the forest, and will use the myriad abilities of nature to turn their enemies into mulch. If you anger one, you’ d best make like a tree… and leave.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: General Education, Survival
Trainer Classes79Green Path
Prerequisites: Druid
StaticEffect : Y ou gain the Naturewalk (Grassland) and Na-
turewalk (Forest) capabilities, and you are immune to Moves with the Powder keyword. 
Overgrowth
Prerequisites: Nature’s Embrace Rank 32 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit with a Druid MoveEffect : One target of the triggering Move is afflicted 
with Overgrowth. As long as the target is afflicted, they are one step less Resistant to Grass-Type attacks, to a maximum of neutral damage, and they cannot recov-er Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points. Whenever they would do so, you gain those Hit Points or Tempo-rary Hit Points instead. Overgrowth is removed when the target Takes a Breather or is hit by a damaging Fire, Ice, Poison, Flying, or Bug-Type attack. Overgrowth may only affect a target once per Scene.Druid's Call
Prerequisites: Green PathScene x2 – Standard ActionEffect : 6 small saplings, flowery bushes, or mushroom 
patches (depending on your oath) suddenly grow with-in 6 meters of you, occupying 1 square each. This veg-etation lasts until the end of the encounter, and acts as rough terrain that blocks line of sight for Pokémon and Trainers without the Naturewalk (Forest) Capability. Whenever you use a Move learned through Nature's Embrace, you may have it originate from these Plants as if they were the user. This Feature must be used on soil, or terrain under which soil is hidden by only a few inches (such as most sidewalks, parking lots, gravel or woodchip lots, etc.)
 
Nature's Embrace 
[Ranked 3] 
Rank 1 Prerequisites: DruidRank 2 Prerequisites: Adept Survival or General Edu-cationRank 3 Prerequisites:  Expert Survival or General Ed-ucationStaticEffect : Y ou learn 2 Moves chosen from the list below, 
marked with the Rank of this Feature you are gaining or lower. Druid
[Class] [Special] Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Grass), Novice Survival, Novice General EducationStaticEffect : Y our powers begin to take after either Flowers, Fungi, or Trees. Depending on your oath, you gain an 
Ability and Stat Tags. Whenever you gain a Druid Feature, you gain the same Stat Tags.
Flower Oath Aroma Veil [+Special Attack]
Fungal Oath Effect Spore [+Special Defense]
Wood Oath Life Force [+Attack]
Rank 1 Moves
Move Prerequisites
Cotton Spore None
Ingrain Tree Oath
Mega Drain None
Razor Leaf None
Stun Spore Fungal Oath
Sweet Scent Flower OathRank 2 Moves
Move Prerequisites
Aromatherapy Flower Oath
Energy Ball None
Giga Drain Fungal Oath
Magical Leaf None
Seed Bomb None
Spiky Shield Tree Oath
 Rank 3 Moves
Move Prerequisites
Leech Seed None
Petal Blizzard Tree Oath
Petal Dance Flower Oath
Power Whip None
Solar Beam None
Spore Fungal Oath
Trainer Classes80
Ground Elementalist: 
Earth Shaker
The earth is the very foundation that the world’s life lives on. Little by little, it moves, unceasingly changing itself bit by bit. Continents drift. Volcanoes rise. The earth quakes, shakes and cracks open. Those with the steady, unyield-ing nature of the land are Earth Shakers. As unflinching as the ground itself, these souls control the very substance on which they - and their enemies - stand. Whether the earth parts, the sand streams, or balance is lost, these pa-tient trainers will overcome any odds to ensure they and their allies are the only ones left standing on solid ground.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Focus, Intuition
Trainer Classes81Earth Shaker
[Class] [+Defense]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Ground), Novice Intuition, Novice FocusStaticEffect: Pick two of Bulldoze, Mud Shot, or Sand-Attack. Y ou learn the chosen Moves.
Earthen Bond 
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Earth ShakerStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Tremorsense Capability, and you 
gain Naturewalk for Cave, Mountain and Desert. 
Earth Mother’s Blessing
[Ranked 2] [+Defense]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Adept Focus or IntuitionRank 2 Prerequisites: Ground Out, Master Focus or IntuitionStaticEffect : Each Rank, choose Arena Trap or Lightning 
Rod. Y ou gain the chosen Ability. 
Earthshifter  
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Ground Out2 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit with a damaging Ground Type MoveEffect : Y ou initiate a Trip Maneuver against 1 target of 
the Move. The Maneuver automatically hits, and you may use your Focus or Intuition for the opposed check. 
 Ground Out
[+Defense] 
Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, Expert Focus or IntuitionStaticEffect : Pick two of Drill Run, Magnitude, or Mud Bomb. 
Y ou learn the chosen Moves. 
Tectonic Shift
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Ground Out, Master Focus or IntuitionStaticEffect : Pick two of Earthquake, Earth Power, or Sand 
Tomb. Y ou learn the chosen Moves.  
Trainer Classes82
Ice Elementalist: 
Frost Touched
Eons ago, the world flourished in life, only to fall in a relatively brief but lethal global freeze. Those who emerged from the ice age were tempered by it, fit for survival. But many have forgotten to fear the frost… and those who would call upon its power once more. The Frost Touched are trainers with a supernatural power over subzero tem-peratures, and by that power can function however cold it gets. As fit for survival as their ancestors, these fearsome warriors could certainly build a snowman - but should you get the urge to ask, you should just let it go.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Athletics, Survival
Trainer Classes83The Cold Never Bothered Me Anyway
[+Attack or Special Attack]
Prerequisites: Frost TouchedStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Naturewalk (Tundra) Capability, 
are immune to being Frozen, and do not lose Hit Points from Hail.  
Glacial Defense
[+Attack or Special Attack]Prerequisites: Frost TouchedStaticEffect : Choose Ice Shield or Winter's Kiss. Y ou gain the 
Chosen Ability.  
Frozen Domain 
[+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Expert Athletics or Survival2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : Set 6 square meters of Frozen Domain within 
range 6. All 6 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Frozen Domain. All legal targets passing through these squares must make an Acrobatics check with a DC equal to 4 + twice your Survival Rank. On failure, the target is Tripped. Pokémon who are flying, levitating, or have the Naturewalk (Tundra) Capability are immune to this effect.  When standing on a square affected by Frozen Domain, you may act as if you were in Hail weather. When a Fire-Type attack originates from or targets a square of Frozen Domain, that square of Frozen Domain melts and is cleared.  Frozen Domain is considered a Hazard. Winter is Coming
 [+Attack or Special Attack] Prerequisites: Master Athletics or SurvivalStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Frostbite Ability. 
 
Winter's Herald
[Ranked 2] [+Attack or Special Attack]Rank 1 Prerequisites: Expert Athletics or SurvivalRank 2 Prerequisites: Master Athletics or SurvivalStaticEffect : Y ou may learn two Moves from the list below, 
marked with the Rank of Winter’s Herald you are gain-ing or lower.Frost Touched
[Class] [+Attack or Special Attack]Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Ice), Novice Athletics, Novice SurvivalPrerequisites:Effect : Choose two out of Haze, Ice Shard, Mist, and Powder Snow. Y ou learn the Chosen Moves. 
Rank 1 Moves Rank 2 Moves
Freeze-Dry Avalanche
Ice Punch Blizzard
Ice Beam Frost Breath
Icicle Crash Icicle Spear
Trainer Classes84
Normal Elementalist: 
Prism
In a realm of eighteen different flavors of ice cream, the Normal type is certainly vanilla. But whoever said that vanilla had to be plain? Though lacking in the raw, elemental aspects of the other types, Normal nevertheless tends to focus a variety of powers, like a prism straining different colors of light. The trainers who embrace their inner versatility may learn themselves how to focus it, like a Prism. Wielders of light, these Elementalists make use of flashy, powerful techniques with a rainbow spectrum of effects, proving that Normal definitely doesn’t mean dull.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Charm, General Education
Trainer Classes85Blinding Brightness
[+Special Attack]
Prerequisites: PrismStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Illuminate Ability.
 
Sparkle
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Prism, Expert Charm or General Edu-cationStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Tri-Attack and Weather 
Ball. 
Rainbow Surge
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Sparkle, Master Charm or General Ed-ucationStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Hyper Beam and Morning 
Sun. 
Lucent Mirage
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: PrismStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Illusionist Capability.  
Luminous Aura
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Blinding Brightness, Adept Charm or General EducationStaticEffect : Choose Starlight or Sunglow. Y ou gain the Cho-
sen Ability.  Prismatic Alignment
[+Special Attack]Prerequisites: 4 Prism Features, Master Charm or Gen-eral Education2 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou use a Prism MoveEffect : The effect of this Feature depends on the Trig-
gering Move. Y ou may only use Prismatic Alignment with each Move once per Scene. 
•	Flash : Flash also Blinds all targets it hits until the 
end of their next turn. 
•	Swift : Swift instead has a range of 8, 3 Targets.
•	Tri Attack: Roll twice for Tri Attack’s Accuracy Roll 
and take the better result. If you trigger its Effect Range, you may choose the effect instead of rolling for it. 
•	Weather Ball: Y ou use Weather Ball as if you were in the Weather of your choice.
•	Hyper Beam : Hyper Beam instead has a Range of 
Burst 2, Smite or 10, Ranged Blast 3, Smite.
•	Morning Sun: Y ou use Morning Sun as if you were in Sunny Weather, and you may cure yourself of one Status Affliction. 
 Prism  
[Class] [+Special Attack]Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Normal), Novice General Education, Novice CharmStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Flash and Swift. 
Trainer Classes86
Poison Elementalist: 
Miasmic
Illness. Disease. Death. Decay. Where Grass represents flourishing life, and Ghosts display life after death, Poison is that in-between. A slow, steady decline towards the end. Even in its most nonlethal doses, poison causes living creatures to ‘malfunction’ , debilitating in some way. Many substances are toxic to a degree, and Miasmics know that rarely is anything truly pure. These trainers take on the vile aspects of decay, becoming less susceptible to the same themselves and becoming less bound to the shape their living shell was born with. These individuals may be shaped by their powers, becoming abrasive to those who don’t understand. But Miasmics know, everything has its end...Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Guile, Stealth
Trainer Classes87Corrupt Blood 
[+Defense] 
Prerequisites: MiasmicStaticEffect : Y ou are immune to the Poisoned and Badly Poi-
soned statuses and resist Poison-type attacks one step further. 
Flexible Form 
[+Defense]  Prerequisites: MiasmicStaticEffect : Y our body becomes more malleable, and even 
your bones are able to flex when required. Y ou do not gain Injuries from taking Massive damage, and you gain a +2 Bonus to any Acrobatics or Athletics Check made to bend, squeeze, or otherwise contort your body  -in-cluding those to avoid Trip or Grapple maneuvers. 
Vile Body 
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Adept Guile or StealthStaticEffect : Choose Absorb Force, Poison Point, or Poison 
Touch. Y ou gain the chosen Ability. 
Miasma’s Call 
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Vile Body, Expert Stealth or GuileStaticEffect : Y ou learn the moves Acid Armor and Sludge 
Bomb. Miasma Unleashed 
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Miasma’s Call, Master Stealth or GuileStaticEffect : Y ou learn the moves Sludge Wave and Toxic.
 
Miasmic Spray
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Miasma’s Call, Master Stealth or Guile2 AP – Swift ActionTrigger: Y ou hit with Acid, Clear Smog, Sludge Bomb, Sludge Wave, or Toxic; or use Acid Armor.Effect : The Effect of this feature depends on the trigger -
ing move.
•	Acid : Instead of its usual effect, Acid lowers the Spe-
cial Defense of all targets hit by -2 Combat Stages.
•	Clear Smog:  Clear Smog’s target loses 5 HP for 
each combat stage lost.
•	Sludge Bomb :  The Target receives a -3 penalty to 
Accuracy Rolls until the end of your next turn.
•	Sludge Wave:  All targets in Sludge Wave’s Burst are Slowed until the end of their next turn.
•	Toxic :  The target’s Badly Poison Hit Point Loss be-
gins at 10 instead of 5.
•	Acid Armor:  Y ou are not slowed while liquefied and resist all special damage one step. 
 Miasmic
[Class] [+Defense]Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Poison), Novice Stealth, Novice GuileStaticEffect: Y ou learn the Moves Acid and Clear Smog.
Trainer Classes88
Rock Elementalist: 
Stone Warrior
While the supernatural effects of an Elemental Connection aren’t always obvious, those with a Rock Connection show it in a way that’s pretty gneiss; their skin gets thicker, bones more durable, and overall exhibit more physical endurance than whats considered normal.  They also exhibit some limited ability to materialize earthen matter and weaponize it, much like a Rock Type Pokémon .  These individuals are known as Stone Warriors, and are often guided since an early age to put their natural skills to use.  These earthen guardians make excellent bodyguards, and many corporate fat cats, politicians and celebrities seek them out for employment.  Because of this, some might think that these guys are all bark and no bite, but you can’t take the ability to materialize rocks for granite.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Combat, Survival
Trainer Classes89Stone Stance 
[+Defense] 
Prerequisites: Stone WarriorBind 2 AP – Standard ActionEffect : Y ou adopt one of the stances below, gaining the 
effects of the stance while this Feature remains bound. Y ou may switch your active Stance as a Standard Action without rebinding your AP . The benefits from this Fea-ture do not apply if you are not standing on a solid sur -
face, such as deep mud or snow, or if you are outright swimming or even flying.
•	Falling Boulder Stance:  Y ou gain a +5 bonus to all 
Damage Rolls, but lose 5 HP from Recoil whenever you hit with an attack.
•	Moon Mountain Stance:  Y our initiative is lowered by -5, but you gain 5 Damage Reduction and are im-mune to Push or Pull effects.
•	Roiling Earth Stance:  After a successful Intercept action, you may make a Struggle Attack against a foe within range. 
 
Rock Power 
[Ranked 2] [+Defense] Rank 1 Prerequisites: Adept Combat or SurvivalRank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Combat or SurvivalStaticEffect : Each Rank, choose one of Sturdy, Rock Head, 
Run Up, or Sand Veil. Y ou gain the chosen Ability.  If you choose Sand Veil, you may consider sand a “solid surface” for the purposes of Stone Stance. Shards of Stone 
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Expert Combat or SurvivalStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Rock Slide and Stealth Rock 
 
Stone Cold Finish
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Shards of Stone, Master Combat or Sur -
vivalStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Stone Edge and Head 
Smash. 
Stone Stance Mastery 
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Stone Stance, Master Combat or SurvivalStaticEffect : Whenever you bind Stone Stance, you may 
choose two Stances and apply the effects of both.Stone Warrior 
[Class] [+Defense] Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Rock), Novice Combat, Novice SurvivalStaticEffect: Y ou learn the Moves Rock Tomb and Wide Guard.
Trainer Classes90
Steel Elementalist: 
Steelheart
What was once a curiosity buried in the ground was tempered by mankind into the foundation of society. Weapons and armor to defend themselves, beams to support their houses, circuitry housed within complex devices… Metal has come a long way since man first discovered it and learned how to alloy it to match or exceed the iron hides of Aggron. The strength of Steel is unyielding to man or mon, and those gifted few who know this better than anyone are the Steelhearts. Possessing immense durability, these men and women are living siege engines, taking any blow and offering an unrelenting assault in turn. They do not yield, they do not break. They are the bone of their swords, the heart of their armor.  They know that the hardest metal known to man is no Dragonforce, but the spirit of Steel within themselves and their unlimited blades.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Associated Skills: Athletics, Focus
Trainer Classes91Champion of Steel
[+Defense] [Weapon]
Prerequisites: Steelheart1 AP – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou make a Weapon Attack.Effect : The attack or Move increases your Defense by 1 
Combat Stage on 16+ and you may have it deal Steel- Type Damage if you wish.
Steel Wind
[+Defense] [Weapon]Prerequisites: SteelheartStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Bullet Punch and Metal 
Claw. Y ou may use these Moves as Weapon Attacks when wielding Melee Weapons.
Reactive Armour
[+Defense]Prerequisites: Steelheart, Adept Athletics or FocusScene x2 – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou gain an Injury or take a Critical Hit while wearing metallic ArmorEffect : All foes within a Burst 1 lose Hit Points equal 
to double your Athletics or Focus Rank, and you gain Damage Reduction equal to double your Athletics or Focus Rank for one full round. 
Impenetrable  
[+Defense] Prerequisites: Steelheart, Expert Athletics or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Bulletproof Ability.Master of Arms
[+Defense] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Steelheart, Expert Athletics or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Call to Arms and Unlimited Steel 
Works Talents.
Call to Arms
At-Will – Extended ActionTarget: A Metal WeaponEffect : Y ou create a Steelheart Bond with the target 
Weapon. Y ou may only have one Steelheart Bond at a time; if you create a new Bond, all old Bonds are lost. As a Shift Action, you may beckon your Steelheart Bonded Weapon to your hands if it is within 10 meters. If it is being held by someone else who does not want to let go of the weapon, make an Athletics or Focus vs Athletics Opposed Check. If you win, they their lose grip on your Weapon and it flies to your hand as normal.
Unlimited Steel Works
At-Will – Extended ActionTarget: Y our Steelheart Bond WeaponEffect : Y ou may replace the Move(s) granted by the 
target Weapon with any other standard Weapon Moves, within Limitations. Weapons may still only grant one Adept and one Master Move at a maximum. 
Man of Steel
[+Defense] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Steelheart, Master Athletics or FocusStaticEffect : Y ou learn the Moves Meteor Mash and King’s 
Shield. Y ou may use these Moves as Weapon Attacks when wielding Melee Weapons.Steelheart
[Class] [+Defense] [Weapon]Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Steel), Novice Athletics, Novice FocusStaticEffect : When wielding metal Melee Weapons, you may use Athletics or Focus instead of Combat to determine 
the Damage Base of your Struggle Attacks, to qualify for a Weapon’s Moves, and to resist Disarm Checks. Whenever your Weapon Attacks hit a foe who has previously hit you with a Melee attack in the same round, the foe loses a Tick of Hit Points.
Trainer Classes92
Water Elementalist: 
Maelstrom
The ocean is the vast body of water that covers seventy percent of the Earth’s surface area. Being over twice as vast as the land we live on, it positively teems with life-forms majestic and mysterious. But the sea isn’t only a place of beauty and life - it can also become a raging whirl of clawing waves and greedy currents, waiting to drag the next fool who underestimates the dangers that lay beneath their boat. The ones who can brave the Maelstroms fearlessly have taken on the name of the same, among them skilled Water type Elementalists who can breathe the water like air and glide through the currents as birds on the breeze. They too have the sea’s deadly might, and assault their enemies with the force of a great typhoon.Trainer Combat
Trainer Combat
Travel and Investigation
Associated Skills: Acrobatics, Athletics
Trainer Classes93Water’s Shroud
[+Speed] 
Prerequisites: Call The Current Rank 2StaticEffect: Choose Wash Away or Storm Drain. Y ou gain 
the Chosen Ability.  
Hydro Jet
[+Speed] Prerequisites: Call The Current Rank 11 AP – Free ActionTrigger: Y ou use a damaging single target Water-Type 
MoveEffect: Hydro Jet’s effect depends on if the triggering 
Move was Melee or Ranged. •	If Melee, the Move gains the Pass keyword and you may change direction during the four meters of Pass (but may still only target any given Pokémon or Trainer once). 
•	If Ranged, the Move becomes a Line 4 instead of its usual range.Oceanic Feeling
[+Speed] Prerequisites: Water’s Shroud, Master Athletics or Ac-robaticsScene x2 – Free ActionTrigger: See TextEffect: Y ou may activate Oceanic Feeling when either 
Wash Away or Storm Drain would be triggered to gain that Ability for 1 full round, if you do not already have it, and immediately Trigger it. Activating an Ability this way ignores its usual Frequency. Y ou may use each Ability once per Scene this way. 
Call The Current
[Ranked 3] [+Speed]  Rank 1 Prerequisites: MaelstromRank 2 Prerequisites: Adept Athletics or AcrobaticsRank 3 Prerequisites: Expert Athletics or AcrobaticsEffect : Y ou learn 2 Moves chosen from the list below, 
marked with the Rank of this Feature you are gaining or lower.Maelstrom
[Class] [+Speed] Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Water), Novice Athletics, Novice AcrobaticsStaticEffect : Y ou gain the Gilled Capability, and a +2 bonus to your Swim speed. Whenever your Water-Type Moves 
miss all targets, you gain a Tick of Temporary Hit Points.
Rank 1 Moves Rank 2 Moves Rank 3 Moves
Aqua Jet Bubblebeam Aqua Tail
Aqua Ring Waterfall Rain Dance
Water Pulse Whirlpool Surf
Campaign Settings94
Chapter 4: Campaign 
Settings
How to Use These Settings
This section is divided into two (and hopefully soon three, and by soon I mean before 1.06 in a blog post) containing two full setting concepts for Fantasy cam-paigns.  These settings are comprehensive and ready to be used as is, which can be a big win for a lot of play groups and GMs who are more looking to jump straight to playing.
The settings included here were written to cover a va-
riety of fantasy concepts and subgenres, and to explore various aspects of Pokémon lore that have a lot of room for development in a fantasy world.  Keep in mind as you read these that they aren’t intended to be complete and closed settings.  Each one of them is complete enough for a campaign, but mysteries have been deliberately left open-ended, not just to prevent your potential players from reading ahead but also encouraging playing with ideas and riffing off the ones contained here.The Six Duchies is the first campaign setting detailed and is representative of your traditional Chivalric Ro-mantic setting.  It is an ideal setting for those looking for that traditional Tolkienesque fantasy feeling, as well as those looking for something more akin to A Song of Fire and Ice  from a political intrigue angle.  
Visiwa: The Eastern Isles is the second campaign set-ting detailed and representative of both the Age of Dis-covery and Tribal Fantasy.  This high seas and dense jungled setting focuses on exploration of the unknown with extremely dangerous wildlife, ever changing lab-yrinths and ecosystems, and lost relics and ruins of an ancient civilization.  It can be played from both a swash-buckling, light hearted angle all the way to a dark and dangerous dungeon crawl.  It also includes several dif-ferent cultural groups, leaving a lot of room for politics and tension between the various factions.
Campaign Settings95
The sea breeze rolled across the docks and through the city of Kingswatch, the banners of the First Cohort of 
the royal army fluttering.  The procession through the town was silent save for the clamor of armored foot-steps. The troopers marched through the city, past the temple of the Thousand Arms where holy men and 
women mourned. Past the College of Three Disciplines, where scholars had halted their studies for the day to pay solemn respect, and past the College of Logic, saluted by future captains and commanders in full parade dress. Bannermen held their burdens high, never letting the black pennants dip or waver despite the winding path and the hours of steady march. Reaching the palace proper, they entered a grand hall, their final destination. It was open to the western sea, allowing the breeze to swim over those assembled.
Standing on tiered platforms along the walls were the ruling nobility of Adairslen. The dukes and duchesses each sat 
under a banner displaying their coat of arms. Of the Six Duchies only one lord was absent; the Duke of Coalbank had sent his youngest son in his place, a boy no older than ten summers. It was just above insult for the event. 
A funeral. A coronation.The soldiers knelt in a wave, each rank in turn. They did not pay obeisance to the nobility at their flanks, but to the 
veiled woman at the head of the room, standing stiff as wood and flanked by two men.
The men standing on either side of her could not look any more different. One was a man of middle years, his long hair 
tied in a braid streaked with early grey. His clothes were worn, but of fine material. He looked down his nose, crooked where it had been broken at least once. This was the storyteller. The other man was in the winter of his life, his white hair cropped short in a warrior’s cut. His clothes were of simple make and fabric, all in white. He clutched his medal-lion of office, the golden wheel, with scarred hands. He was the First Arm of the Path.Six Duchies
Campaign Settings96 On the raised dais the veiled woman motioned for the soldiers to stand. At her command they snapped to attention. 
Slowly she removed her veil. She was rather plain, her face bare of paint, her dark hair pulled into a severe bun. Even 
her mourning dress was simple in design, if not in fabric. Her most striking features were her red eyes, and they glowed 
on her pale face. The sun, setting at her back, ringed her in light.
 It was then that Margaret Bloody-Eyes made her first speech as queen. 
“This is Our time for mourning. Our father the late king was one of the most beloved rulers this kingdom has ever 
known. He viewed all his lands, his home, and all those who lived upon them his children. Our father was as a father 
to the entirety of Adairslen. As such every Adairen weeps for his passing. But the treachery that took him will not go 
unpunished, ” her voice cracked as she spoke. Quickly she regained control of herself.
“But now more than ever are the duchies divided, ripping at each other’s throats. Why? Differences in belief? Who 
follows the Path of One-Thousand or who pays respect to the Icons? Over riches gained or taxes levied? Slights real or 
imagined. Those seeking to lay blame?” Her words came easier now her as she found the rhythm.
The room remained silent. Many of the noble men and women looked anywhere but to the dais, to their Queen.
“We are not blind, nor deaf. We know what whispers echo in Our nation. Cession. We know what we are called. We 
are not Our father, we have never claimed to be. No, do not hide it. We see it in your faces. The fear in your eyes. The 
uncertainty. The ambition, ” Margaret’s eyes lingered on the young scion of Coalbank, and to the boy’s credit he only 
squirmed after her gaze left him.
“We will not be perfect at first, but We are still your monarch. We, I, am your Queen. But for this nation to do more 
than survive, for this nation to thrive as it did under the rule of my father I cannot do this alone. I will need the aid of 
every Archduchess and Archduke in the kingdom. The aide of every man and woman in this room. ” The queen contin-
ued on, her expression hardening as she looked over those assembled. 
“We are Maragret Adairson, also called Bloody Eyes. We call now to reaffirm your oaths, thrice over. Once to the 
throne, once to your lands, and once to me, ” the stiff, uncertain woman of earlier was mostly gone. 
Several of the dukes and duchesses shared confused looks. Eventually Duchess Oriana of Fairfield knelt, hand over 
heart. ”My Queen, I swear my oath, my fealty, my life. To the crown, the kingdom, and to you. ”
Each of the dukes and duchesses followed suit. Coalbank was the last group to kneel before their queen. 
“You all honor me and you honor our father, ” Margaret said, the tears falling down her face, red in the setting sun.
--So began the Reign of Margaret Bloody-Eyes. 1065 FF
Campaign Settings97Six Duchies is a western medieval fantasy campaign setting, where sword and sorcery still reign supreme. The na-
tion of Adairslen is in turmoil; their king was assassinated while en route to a ball in his honor. Fear runs rampant 
with the nobility, and whispers of usurpation and cession burn the ears of all who hear them.
The six duchies that the setting derives its name from make up the six provinces of Adairslen: the capital King’s 
Watch; Fairfield, the oldest Duchy; Coalbank, famed for its mining; Sailmourne and its famous sailors; Faepeak, 
in the shadow of the mountain, Fairymont; and Greensea, land of primordial forests. Wild Pokémon still populate 
the Six Duchies, but Poké Balls are still a new and rare invention, so there are fewer domesticated species. 
Each Duchy has a Ducal Keep that serves as a capital. They are the largest settlement in each duchy and are the 
center of commerce. All tariffs, levies and general tax collection makes it’s way to the ducal keeps, and from there 
to Kingswatch. Every ducal keep is protected by walls taller than any man could climb. These walls were built when 
the duchies were still new, and as time progressed the commerce, produce, and manpower needed to supply the 
Keeps caused the towns to spread outside of the walls. 
Technology and Setting BasicsSix Duchies Campaign Setting
Genre: Chivalric Romance
Features:  Enchanted Landscapes, Exploration, Living Gods, Magical/Military Academie, Political Intrigue, Old Fae Lore, Warring States
Poké Balls
Capturing Pokémon is nothing new in the Six Duchies, and has been happening for centuries. The method by which Pokémon are captured is the only thing that has changed. Prior to the invention of Poké Balls, Pokémon would have to be contained within a runic circle for the duration of a ritual to bind them to a sizeable piece of Faeglass, a crystal found only within the mines of Fairy-mont. 
Due to the cost of materials, only nobility were able to 
bind Pokémon, and the Faeglass crystals were often dis-played in jewelry, weapons, or armor. Due to the length of the ritual and the fragility of the Faeglass before being bound, only sedated or domestic Pokémon were bound.
 Modern Poké Balls have only been in production for 
about ten years. Initially discovered by researchers at the College of Logic, Poké Balls are made using Apri-corn shells inlaid with Faeglass and Varil ore. While the College is highly protective of their production meth-ods and design, rudimentary versions of the Poké Balls created by the College can be produced by country hedgewitches and wizards, but these products are more likely to break.Pokémon Centers
In the duchies Pokémon centers do not exist in the tra-ditional sense. The duchies have houses of healing in every major city that heal both trainer and Pokémon, but out in the wilds options are limited to local heal-ers and hedge witches/wizards. These individuals will provide healing services, sometimes for free, but sometimes in exchange for a favor, either  immediate or called on later. In general it is poor planning to have every Healer’s Hut or Hedge Witch require a service or goods but it can help set the tone of the area. 
Religion
There are two main religions in Adairslen: the worship of the legendary Icons, and the proclaimed Path of One Thousand Arms, sometimes refereed to as the Arcean Cult. The Path is relatively new, as it was only estab-lished two hundred years ago; the late king was the first member of the royal family to practice the Path openly, going so far as to build a temple in the capital. Since his conversion, tensions and conflicts between the two religions have begun to emerge between the formerly peaceful groups.
Campaign Settings98The Icons
Icons are the forces of human nature made manifest. 
They begin as mere stories told over years and centuries until the belief and faith of thousands of people spins them into life. As they are beings beyond mortal lim-itations, no Icon is bound to a singular body or shape; however, they are still bound to mortal belief. Should a story cease to be told, an Icon may lose access to that character. Should enough stories vanish, an Icon may disappear entirely. Conversely, as new stories are creat-ed, an Icon can gain new forms.
Every Icon has a sphere of influence that correlates to 
their nature, as well favored Pokémon. These Pokémon may embody an Icon’s spirit, ideology, or personality; they may also simply be tied to an Icon through sto-ries. Icons will often bless members of these favored species in odd but beneficial ways. Occasionally, these Pokémon can also be used as servants or messengers.
Icons do not have an organized or dedicated clergy. 
They can be worshipped anywhere, by anyone. Prayers are simply stories; they range from as short as two lines, to epics usually reserved for festivals. The closest thing to a priesthood are freelance Storytellers. These are peo-ple who travel the land learning and telling stories, at-tempting to ensure no legend is lost. Most Storytellers devote themselves to a particular Icon, but will never turn down a rare tale of any Icon. The more popular Icons may have shrines, but these are tended by volun-teers, usually retired Storytellers. 
Each duchy has a favored Icon, one the people pour 
more belief into than any other. Icons are more likely to appear and act in areas where their worship is strong, but they are by no means limited to these areas.
Most Popular Icons
The Grinning Fisherman
Patron of the art of fishing, the Grinning Fisherman is said to be found at every major body of water with a pole in hand and a story to tell. Reports of his appear -
ance vary wildly from duchy to duchy, but he always appears as an older man with a full beard and a perpet-ual grin. He is one of the most enigmatic of the Icons, as he never 
makes demands of his followers or attempts to increase 
their numbers. He usually only appears to those worried 
or afraid; he tells a story, or answers some questions, and departs, often before they realize who he is. Despite his mysterious nature, he is worshipped by sailors, fish-
erman, and anyone with business on the sea. 
Spheres of influence: Water, Fishing, Sailing, Storytell-
ingFavored Pokémon: Lapras, Slowpoke, Finneon, Wailm-
er
Lord of Feasts
This Icon is arguable the most active, and unlike most 
Icons, the Lord of Feasts can be deliberately summoned--in this instance, by a grand enough celebration. He ap-pears most often as a young man with a masquerade mask, and is usually clothed as richly as the wealthiest of nobles. 
Although normally carefree and jovial, this Icon is ca-
pable of grimmer presentations. He embodies excess; when his mood turns sour, the celebration may contin-ue until participants are pushed beyond mortal limits, dancing and consuming until there is nothing left. De-spite the risk, any party attended by the Lord of Feasts will be remembered for years to come.
Other Titles: Duke of Drink, Viscount of Victuals, Re-
viled RevelerSpheres of Influence: Dance, Food, CelebrationFavored Pokémon: Muchlax line, Gulpin line, Spinda, Shuckle
The Midwife
Doctors and hospitals are rare in Adairslen, found pri-marily in the keeps. In the country, the Midwife is the patron Icon of local healers and pregnant women. The Midwife usually takes the guise of an older woman, wrapped in scarves and a tattered dress, a bag of tools and a long knife on her hips. Her face is obscured by her scarves but her long, bony fingers are wrinkled, worn, and calloused. 
Campaign Settings99Though midwifery is her specialty, it is not the only 
thing the Midwife is known for. She is a healer of any 
ailment; though she usually only appears in times of 
dire need, she will also appear to newly pregnant wom-
en or women who have recently miscarried.
Other Titles: Midwife, Matron, Matriarch
Spheres of Influence: Fertility, Health
Favored  Pokémon: Chansey, Kangskhan, Audino, Alo-
momola
Soul of the Battlefields
This Icon is associated with any sort of bloodshed, be 
it war, murder, or raiding. As such, this Icon is wor -
shipped not only by soldiers, but also by bandits and assassins. This Icon is only found where lives have been deliberately taken and is most commonly seen on bat-tlefields, battling on the side of the victor. The Soul of Battlefields has only one identifying trait; a face painted red with blood. Anyone who pays respect to this Icon does so fervently, for the Soul of Battlefields is unpre-dictable; the worst fate imaginable is to find this Icon fighting against you, for they never lose.
Other Titles: Bloody Icon, Idol of Murders, Warcaller
Spheres of Influence: Duels, War, BloodshedFavored Pokémon: Tyranitar Line, Honedge Line, Ty-rouge line
Pathfinder
The patron of the hunt and master of the secrets of the wild lands, this Icon is barely remembered by those who live in large towns and cities. This Icon is known for its capricious behavior; while it occasionally aids hunters, it will sometimes turn on them in the middle of the hunt, startling game or turning disrespectful hunters into prey. The Pathfinder never kills without reason. It appears to followers as: an older woodsmen with Ur -
saring hides slung over one shoulder, carrying a large logging axe; a young woman with a longbow; or a young child with a hunting knife.
Other Titles: The Pathfinder, Ranger of the Wilds , or 
Master of the HuntSpheres of Influence: Hunting, Forests, StealthFavored Pokémon: Stantler, Deerling line, Vulpix line, Houndour Line, Growlithe line, Rufflet LinePlowman
The most humble of the Icons, the Plowman’s pres-ence is visible even if he himself isn’t. Wherever he has walked or worked the plants grow that much faster, are that much stronger, and produce that much more. Though he is not the most widely worshipped Icon, he is respected and loved by his followers, for he brings only blessings and never curses. 
The Plowman always takes the form of a suntanned 
youth on the verge of manhood, his hair bleached by the sun. He is most commonly found hiring on for a day’s work; where he toils, the work goes faster, and his fellows never tire. Crops he gathers seem to double in the gathering, and what he plants faces neither pest nor plague. He is often accompanied by a Tauros that he will leave behind as a gift; Tauros descended from these Pokémon are highly valued.
Other Titles: Lord of Farmers, Tauros Blood,
Spheres of Influence: Crops, Growth, Animal Hus-bandryFavored Pokémon: Taruos, Miltank, Spoink line, Hop-pip line, Mareep line, Cherrim,pumpkaboo line.
Scholar of Runes
The Icon of academic endeavors and research. The Scholar has no definite shape or form; it has appeared as men and women both young and old, as whisperers unseen, and even as a tome of knowledge. The Scholar appears to anyone truly seeking knowledge and will of-fer their advice and guidance. 
This Icon truly appreciates being called upon and relish-
es their patrons as much as the endeavors they are on. The Scholar often becomes too engrossed in the pur -
suit of research, and has been known to go to extreme lengths, influencing patrons or providing questionable tools and means, in order to find answers.
Other Titles: Librarian of the Arcane, Scathing Aca-
demic, Sinister SavantSpheres of Influence: Knowledge, Artifice, Ruthless-nessFavored Pokémon: Unknown, Fenniken line, Abra line, Claydol line Golett line
Campaign Settings100Singer of Storms
The Singer of Storms is the Icon most closely associated 
with the turn of the seasons and the weather. Those who pay her respect ask for an early spring or a cool summer, for rain or for sun. She is also mistress of music, and one of the many ways she asks for tribute is through song. Her appearance and instrument change depending on the season and the weather. 
In fall she has hair of deep browns, gold and yellows; 
her skin is the color of  wet clay and her eyes green. She primarily uses flutes and other woodwinds during this season. In winter her skin is white as snow, her hair blue with shards of black, and her eyes are colorless white orbs, and uses drums and other percussions. 
Spring turns her hair to green, full of life and flow-
ers; her skin becomes a rosy peach color; and her eyes change at a whim, always reminiscent of wildflowers. It is during this season that she truly becomes the Singer, as she uses no instrument but her voice. Summer turns her skin turn a dark bark-like brown; her hair as red as the setting sun; and her eyes each a miniature sun. This season is for string instruments, primarily harps and lutes.
Other Titles: Composer of Cold, Spring Soloist, Con-
ductor of SunlightSpheres of Influence: Weather, Seasons, Song, MusicFavored Pokémon: Castform, Kricketune, Chatot, Ig-glypuff line, Deerling line
Migrant Trader
The Icon of travel and trade. Every merchant, trader, and traveler pays homage to the Migrant Trader, for its blessings include  safe travel, the best deals, and the chance to be the first to corner a market or discover a new point on the map. The Trader has anything a per -
son could want and is always the happy to make a deal, although they don’t always trade in coin. They have been known to trade secrets, time, years of work, and even lives for their goods and services. The Migrant Trader has claimed to have set up shop everywhere in the world, and some places besides, even on the other side of death. Their appearance is always the same: a fig-ure in a large black cloak, hood raised, a kerchief across their face, and a bag of goods on their back. Other Titles: Dead Peddler, Vagrant Vendor
Spheres of Influence: Trade, Travel, Money
Favored Pokémon: Meowth Line, Inkay line, Delibird 
The Path of One Thousand Arms
Unlike the Icons, the Path has a devoted and organized 
clergy and religion. They preach of the harmony of the natural world and worship Arceus as the creator. Al-though they are a popular religion, practiced openly by commoners and nobility alike, the Path was initially persecuted and practiced secretly. 
The founder of the Path was a commoner, a farmer in 
Farfield Duchy named Mercedes. During planting sea-son, she unearthed a flute carved entirely of strange blue stone. She played it that evening for her family, and they marveled at the clear and beautiful sounds it produced. In their dreams, each member of the family saw a being unlike any other; he did not speak to them, and he did not attack them. He simply watched. For over a fort-night the family shared this dream, and every day they discovered a new object buried in their fields, strange stone like objects of mysterious make and design. 
On the sixteenth day they found the last plate; on the 
sixteenth night, the being finally spoke to Mercedes. While there are many contradicting stories of what the being we now call the Creator told His first disciple, all the texts agree on what happened next. Mercedes of Farfield cast away her name, becoming the First Arm of the Path of One Thousand. She preached the unity and harmony of the Sixteen Essences of the World, using the power of the sixteen Plates to demonstrate the truth of her story. Each Plate granted dominion over one of the fundamental elements of the world. Many were awed by her power and her story, and her following steadily grew.
Although the First Arm denounced war and bloodshed, 
her pacifism was seen as a fatal weakness by those who saw her as a lunatic and a heretic. In order to protect her, members of the congregation formed a group called the Gilded Fists. Each member of the Gilded fists aspires to the rank of Knight-Templar. There are only ever sixteen Knight-Templars at one time, as each embodies one of the sixteen aspects of creation. 
Campaign Settings101Each Knight-Templar commands five ‘Finger’ groups of 
ten men and women. Total, the Gilded Fists are com-
posed of eight hundred knights. Though this group is 
large enough to rival any standing army, they have no 
military base and are rarely in the same place. They are 
most commonly divided down to the Fingers and serve 
as small honor guards for missionaries and gather into 
full Fists to serve the First Arm.
In the formative years of the Path, when they were still 
hunted and persecuted, the Sixteen Plates were lost. No 
one knows why or how: some say the Creator was an-
gry with his disciples for using His blessings as tools of 
destruction, and reclaimed the Plates from the world; 
others claim that the First disciple deliberately broke 
them on her deathbed and scattered the shards across 
the land with the last of her power to prevent them from 
being misused. 
Those of the Path hold only sixteen major elements in 
high regard, disregarding two elements that were not 
present in the Plates. Normal holds no special gifts, but 
is seen as the force that binds the world together. The 
other missing element is Fairy. The Path officially views 
fairies as something alien, but benign. There are those who seek it out as a corruption, and attempt to cleanse it 
from the world. Other factions claim that it is just a new 
element brought to the world by the Creator and that 
the Path should adopt it into its doctrine. 
Titans
In the world of Adairslen, legendary Pokémon take the 
form of Titans, beasts of legendary power and pure el-emental force. Old legends claim these creatures made the world, but these stories have long been disregard-ed in the face of their unrelenting destructive force and complete disregard for the lives of anyone, human or Pokémon, who crosses their path. Not one expedition has ever returned from trying to calm these Titans.
In ancient history, kingdoms and empires banded to-
gether in attempts to defeat these Titans. Such battles are referred to as the Titan Wars. They all ended in fail-ure. In modern Adairslen, most people avoid these crea-tures to the best of their ability. However, the College of Three Disciplines has begun long-distance studies into the nature of these Titans, and rumors say they hope to one day capture or control them. They have recruited the small but fervent Titan Cults into service, sending members closer than most scholars dare go.
Example Titans:
•	The Titan of the Southern Sea, now called the Sea of Glass stilled it’s waves over a millennia ago, no scholar knows why but to this day there are no waves, the tide rises and falls with still water. 
•	The islands that dot the northern archipelago have raging volcanoes that never stop spewing their ash and lava, slowly growing each year. On dark still nights those who live on the shores claim to hear ringing roars and earth shaking blows coming from those mountain peaks, the Titan of the Earths Heart expanding his influence. 
Society in the Six Duchies
The social structure of Adairslen is largely feudal. The kingdom is broken into the six duchies, and each duchy is broken down further into individual fiefdoms. Each duchy has a ruling noble family led by an arch- duke or duchess, then branch families who own and oversee these fiefdoms. 
Depending on the duchy there may also exist a wealthy 
merchant class. The merchants wield considerable pow-er and influence, often on par with the nobility, but without titles. Many of these merchant princes have been stripped of their property and wealth after trying to act above their station in the capitol. 
Those who exhibit supernatural powers are often re-
cruited at a young age by the Path to be trained as either a Gilded Fist or part of the clergy. Those who refuse or avoid their attention often attend the College of Three Disciplines to further their abilities. Individuals from small towns or remote villages are usually taught by a local hedge witch or wizard in some regard, often as an apprentice. 
Pokémon Populations
Since this setting is pre-digital age, Pokémon like Pory-gon, Voltorb, Magnemite, and even Mewtwo can’t have the same background as usual. 
Campaign Settings102The Land of Ardairslen
King’s Watch (Capital of the Kingdom)
Ruled by : Queen Margaret Bloody-Eyes
Patron Icon : Scholar of Runes
The capital of the Six Duchies is located on the coast, 
and is the secondary trade port of the kingdom. This city is older than the duchies themselves, having been home to the original inhabitants of Adairslen. Over the centuries the Adairslens have made changes and addi-tions to the city and surrounding area, but the keep it-self, a great stone tower, remains mostly unchanged. It serves as a lighthouse for passing ships and travellers. Residence of the Royal Family.
Notable locations: 
•	The largest military and scholarly academies of the land. The College of Logic is the Adairslen military academy; most young nobles spend at least a single year in attendance. The College of Three Disciplines is the academic college. It focuses on arcane arts, history, and philosophy.
Farfield Duchy  
Ruled by:  Arch Duchess Oriana 
Patron Icon:  The Plowman
The oldest of the duchies. Farfield is the agriculture hub of the country, where most of the kingdom’s grains and livestock are raised. After the invention of Poké Balls, much of its land has been turned away from food pro-duction and instead to the growth of the Apricorns that make the cases of Poké Balls. 
Campaign Settings103The recent change in direction for many of its farms 
has caused a bit of an uproar with those who survive off 
these lands. The new plants and trees cannot bear fruit 
for several years after planting, and even at maturity the 
Apricorns are inedible. This has left many of the farmers 
holding onto the promise of royal investment as a shield 
against starvation.
Notable locations: 
•	The ducal keep, Silo, whose walls surround enough 
farmland to support the entire keep. 
•	The Tauros Proving Grounds: the route by which 
drivers take their Tauros to market every year.
•	The Gormen Music Academy: the greatest school of music and theory in the duchies. It is said that every 
notable bard, dancer or performer has trained here, 
including many of the Icon’s storytellers. 
Coalbank
Ruled by : Arch Duke Vincent
Patron Icon : Migrant Trader
This duchy lies at foothills that lead to the Fairymont. 
Coalbank contains the only mines that produce Varil, the singular ore suitable for the creation of pokeballs. As a result, Coalbank has become the richest of the Six Duchies. Most mining operations for normal ores have ceased in favor of searching for Varil deposits. Hundreds of boomtowns have risen and fallen in the decades since this economic shift.
Notable locations: 
•	The ducal keep, Whitewall. Whitewall is not the grandest of the ducal keeps, but it boasts some of the most impressively maintained walls and garri-sons. The white stone of the walls came from the hills of the duchy themselves and some say they are magicked. 
•	The town of Varisle, located by the original varil mine, is the oldest remaining boomtown and boasts the second largest population in the duchy. Sailmourne
Ruled by : Archduchess Isabella the Privateer
Patron Icon : the Grinning Fisherman.
The only other coastal duchy in the kingdom, Sailm-ourne is renowned for its fine ships and excellent sail-ors. The duchy is in charge of guarding its coast from outside raiders, pirates and corsairs. Minor raiding par -
ties are the norm; a full scale naval battle has not been waged in generations. The people of this duchy are no-toriously superstitious, and invoke their patron at the smallest hint of ill fortune.
Notable locations: 
•	The ducal keep, commonly referred to as the Ship-yard. The keep is built right into its own private docks where the duke’s flagship is kept in case of emergencies. 
•	The shipyards, not to be confused with the ducal keep. They use the timber imported from Greensea Duchy to create all of their ships
•	The Whirling Cave: home to all manner of strange and varied sea life. 
Faepeak
Ruled by:  Archduchess Serena
Patron Icon : Singer of Storms
This duchy dwells in the direct shadow of the Fairy-mont. The people here are reserved and do not take to outsiders very well. Faepeak is one of the more danger -
ous duchies; in the shadow of the mountain, infants and children sometimes vanish from their homes, replaced with strange creatures; men and women vanish for years and return unchanged, unaware of the passage of time, while some return after only a single night, but aged into elders. This duchy is also home to unique Pokémon found nowhere else in the kingdom.  
This duchy is where the crystalline stone called Fae-
glass was first discovered, and its mines remain the only mines to produce it. Since the invention of Poké Balls and the increasing use of Varil ore, the demand for Fae-glass has decreased.  
  
Campaign Settings104Notable locations: 
•	The ducal keep, Stonheart; built into the Fairymont 
itself, the keep’s walls are constructed from stone 
said to be mined from the heart of the Fairymont. 
Though it has never been sieged properly, any at-
tacks made against the ducal keep have always failed 
quickly.  Many who visit claim that Stoneheart Keep 
is a maze of corridors that go deeper than they 
should. Some visitors even claim to have heard voic-
es from the walls and see faces in the stone. Con-
versely, no native has ever experienced trouble nav-
igating.
•	No one is certain how the properties of the crystals 
within the Faeglass mines were first discovered, but 
Faeglass has always been vital to the production of 
Poké Balls. Locals however, have a number of su-
perstitions surrounding Faeglass; most disturbingly, 
they claim that any child who looks into a crystal 
will lose their soul. While these legends remain un-
substantiated, a larger percentage of people do go missing from the mines than from anywhere else in 
the duchy.
Greensea
Ruled by : Archduke Laurent
Patron Icon : The Pathfinder
The largest of the duchies, but the least populated, 
Greensea is named for the thick forests that dominates its lands. Many settlements rest just at the forest’s north-ern edge, but there are a few communities that make their living by logging deep in the woods. It is a diffi-cult life, as the living forest tries to reclaim its lost land every day; plants and trees grow at a vastly accelerated rate, and have overcome several villages unable to keep ahead. Much of the traveling done through this duchy is accomplished by paving roads with stone from the Fairymont, the only material resistant to the plants and trees. 
The wood provided by Greensea duchy supplies the en-
tire kingdom with timber; with the rate of forest growth, there is very little chance of complete deforestation. 
Notable locations:
•	The ducal keep, Ivywall. The keep’s walls are not made of stone, but live wood. When the duchy was first established, before the nature of the forest was fully understood, the people thought nothing of building in the forest using wood. But over the years the walls and buildings began to sprout and leaf again. The strange nature of the forest seems to have brought the dead wood of the walls back to life. This has created a strange atmosphere to the keep and most buildings in the duchy.  The maintenance of the walls requires much shaping and trimming, but as the walls themselves grew the keep became incredibly fortified. 

Campaign Settings105Trainer Creation
Trainers can walk all manner of life in the duchies. 
Many Elementalists and those with the power of Aura are snatched up by the Arcean Cult to serve as squires and eventually knights known as the Gilded Fists, but some still live their whole lives in the country or attend a College. Supernatural classes like Medium and Chan-neler are much more common in the wilds; almost every village or town has at least one as a wiseman or woman. 
Many scholarly types try to gain patronage to research 
their fields, such as pokeball research or the artificial creation of Poké Balls. Such classes might be Research-er, Scientist, even something like Jail Breaker from DP -
DoM could fit with some refluffing. The classes from The Blessed and the Damned can also fit if the campaign fo-cuses on Legendary Pokémon, or even the Icons them-selves may have chosen to bless or brand individuals. 
The more ‘mundane’ classes still have a home in the 
Duchies as well, Ace’s and Capture Specialist especially, as Pokémon raising and catching is important not just for warfare, but everyday life. Chefs might be trying to impress the Lord of Feasts and musicians may wish to play at Court. 
Building a Six Duchies Campaign
The setting allows for a diverse set of game styles (ex: service under a duke to quell banditry; a mercenary band escorting members of the College of Three to a site; political intrigue in the capital in the aftermath of the Kings death; even students at the College of Logic during final exams), so it is best to sit down with your group and discuss what sort of fantasy style game they want to play in. A campaign of Knights of the Gilded Fists will be worlds apart from one following the disci-ples of the Grinning Fisherman. One might be full of combat and rising through the ranks, the other more about exploration and seafaring.Campaign Hooks
Ruins in the Woods
Sages of the College of Three have had an unsettling message delivered in the night. A strange set of ruins have been discovered near the small village of Pinevale in Greensea Duchy. They are in a barren clearing that plants refuse to grow in, an occurrence very unusual in Greensea’s forest. A few brave and curious villagers explored every huge stone structure, except the tallest tower, and found them empty of anything save the murals on the walls. 
The largest tower was the only one with a sealed door. 
But even from the ground the villagers could spy a large, strangely etched stone upon its top. The villag-ers departed the ruins unharmed, but those who had entered the buildings began to fall into a deep slum-ber and any who awoke began speaking  in strange tongues. Soon, the strange illness spread to other members of the expedition, and then to the rest of the village. The writer of the message claims to be one of the last unaffected. 
The sages have agreed to send a company to investigate 
this strange illness, but it is not the state of the villagers that most interests the sages; it is the murals and the buildings themselves. These ruins sound almost com-pletely intact, a legacy unspoiled by war and time. They are unsure how the frescos survived for so long but the scenes described are unlike the Duchies of today. From what the scholars were able to understand of the ‘uned-ucated’ descriptions, the murals depicted Kingswatch, the volatile northern islands, and strange and fantastic creatures and humans. Scholars have theorized that the murals could be showing humans and Titans living side by side. 
Upon arrival in Pinevale, the party finds the village as 
bustling as a logging town can be expected to be. The villagers don’t seem ill, but the people of Pinevale all speak in some sort of language none of the sages have ever heard. Y et the villagers seem to understand one another perfectly fine, and are not outright hostile to the party. The only thing that seems amiss is a large stone in the center of the town. It is easy to tell that it was dragged there recently.
Campaign Settings106It isn’t until several days after the party arrives in Pi-
nevale that a carrier Pidgey delivers a fateful message. 
The malady is spreading from Greensea Duchy to the 
rest of Adairslen even the messenger is now stricken, 
and it is not so benign. Men and women do not wake 
from sleep, or enter a frenzied feral rage. Does this 
strange stone hold the key to the affliction of the town? 
This plothook is something that an entire campaign 
can be based off of or can be adopted in with some 
tailoring. The murals and the ruins themselves are left 
intentionally vague for you to fill in your own ideas 
and mythos to the cause of the plague. It allows for a 
great jumping off point. Maybe the lake guardian trio 
are enraged to find those who worshiped them now 
dead and are revoking the gifts of knowledge, willpow-
er and emotion they gave to humanity. The strange 
stone could be the keystone to an ancient Spiritomb 
who housed the souls for an ancient people, and is now 
possessing those of the Dutchy, and the messenger brought the keystone to the capital.
Shards from the Heavens
It has been generations since the Path of One Thou-sand Arms lost it’s most holy relics, the Plates of Arceus. The details of how they were lost are still the debate of theologians today; the most accepted theory is that Mercedes of Farfield shattered each Plate into shards so that the enemies of the Path could not use them.
Over the centuries many relic hunters have come 
forward, offering to sell what they called shards of the Plates to the Path, most of which were mundane in nature, but not all. The Path hoards those shards, regarding them as holy artefacts. They collect them in hopes to one day mend the shards back to their orig-inal form. This was seen by most of the clergy as an commendable but ultimately unattainable goal. 
Y et the Path has begun to receive reports from its mis-
sionaries, strange starfalls across the Duchies and in their wake the land is changed. Some areas the changes are minute, more rainfalls, or heat waves, even some reports of shadows moving on their own. While in others the region have to contend with the dead walk-ing, or explosive plant growth, even ground shattering earthquakes.The Pokémon in these areas are likewise changed, some are simply found with abilities rare for their breed, while others are different elemental types. But it is those who are behemoths for their kind, their abili-ties and power strange and foreign for their species. It was one of these Pokémon that was first discovered to have one of the strange elemental shards embedded in its flesh, that the Path coveted so much. Even before word had reached the First Arm it seemed some other force had began to collect these shards for their own use. 
The First Arm has offered several mercenary compa-
nies and treasure hunters personal contracts to aid those areas affected by the starfall, as well as retrieve any and all artefacts in the vicinity.  Those of the Path are not the only ones interested in these strange star -
falls, the College of Three has also began efforts to explore these incidents. 
Shards from the Heavens is a campaign hook that 
allows for many different biomes and conflicts between two or more factions. The party can be one of a multi-tude of groups hunting these shards, for glory, gold or out of piety and the lust for knowledge. Perhaps this shadowy group is trying to amass all of the shards to recreate the first 16 plates, or a rogue sect of the Path is using these shards to try and create their own Fairy Plate.
Encounter and Session Ideas
•	While traveling the party notices a strange weath-er phenomenon, a sandstorm, hail, rain and even striking beams of sunlight shifting in succession. Upon investigation they find a group of Castform and two musicians fighting over the weather as the locals run for cover.
•	The Duke Edmont has contracted the party to escort one of his sons from Sailmourne duchy to court. During the trip they find that he is a she! Having swapped places with her brother she wants to attend the College of Logic.
•	A strange merchant asks to join the party at their fire as they camp, he has a cart with a Rapidash attached. After breaking bread with them he asks them if they are looking for work. He brings out a strange bauble he claims is a Poké Ball that can catch anything, and he is looking for a buyer.
Campaign Settings107•	A great discovery is announced in Coalbank duchy, 
a varil ore vein deeper than any other. But as the 
minders start to dig deep a giant Steelix rampages 
through the tunnels Any attempts to fend it off or 
even capture it prove fruitless. A renowned scholar 
claims that the beast has some how fused with the 
Varil ore during its evolution and is easily worth a 
fortune itself.
•	Strange tales from Faepeak Duchy claim that chil-dren are being replaced with fairy Pokémon! The 
Duchess Serena had written it off as more super -
stition until even her own son is replaced with a 
Ralts. The party is contracted to find out what is 
happening.•	The Lord of Feasts has announced a grand festival, 
and promised a boon to whoever could best enter -
tain him. Get your grills and guitars out chefs and 
bards!
•	The College of Three is shaken to it’s core as one of the experiments breaks free and is terrorizing 
the country side of Kingswatch. Reports are con-
flicting on what the experiment was, a herd of 
small Pokémon all acting in unison, a giant beast 
which pulls trees from the root, or a single small 
Pokémon that seems completely harmless.

Campaign Settings108
Visiwa: the Eastern Isles
In the beginning, we were one people – the people of the Holy City of Empathica.  We, the children of Bondye, 
were brought into this world with a simple task: Live, Learn, Build, and Worship.  He even sent The Great Moth-er to watch over us.  Our forefathers took this task to heart, and built the greatest city this world has ever known. 
Their ziggurats, pyramids and temples of gold and gems reached to the heavens themselves.  Artisans, scholars and shamans thrived in a time of great learning and prosperity.  We learned many of the secrets of the universe – math-ematics, alchemy, metallurgy, medicine, nautical navigation and many other arts.  With the teachings of The Great Mother, we first learned to tap into the secrets of mind, body, and soul: Psionics, Mysticism, Aura, and The Dream World. 
But one day, this all changed.  A great catastrophe fell upon Empathica, and the city was lost.  None can say for sure 
what happened – some say Bondye was displeased that they invented the Apricorn Cages and found ways to tame the wilds and inflicted a holy wrath upon us, others claim nightmarish creatures rose from the waters and pulled Empathica down, and many others simply believe we built our towers too high, and the island sunk.  Whatever the cause, our forefathers fled their Holy City as it sunk beneath the waves, taking what little they could with them – which was mostly their knowledge.  The Great Mother exerted much of her energy to guide our people to our new home – Visiwa. 
Once our people landed on what we now call Mother’s Isle, The Great Mother herself said she was tired, and must 
rest.  She found a nice, cool stone to lay on, and entered a deep sleep.  Our forefathers simply could not leave her there, and they learned the wilds were a truly dangerous place.  So, they built her a temple, and beneath that temple, a labyrinth.  There, far beneath the warmth of the sun, they left her to rest.
That was many centuries ago.  Things have changed much now.  In The Great Mother’s absence, we found new 
Gods…or maybe, they found us.  Regardless, disagreements amongst our people started, and then violence.  We are no longer one people, but two.  The Great Mother’s Temple is lost to us, and with it, The Great Mother herself as well.
-Ekondayo, Elder Shaman of Darkfeather Village. 
January 12th, 1816
Six months have passed since we first landed on Kingler Isle (and to think it took us three months to understand 
why the Wildlings called it that!) and founded Port Ivyhollow.  While we are able to maintain the settlement just fine, as resources are plentiful, expansion has proven highly improbable.  We have lost scores of scouts over 
the months; it as if it knows we are outsiders, and fights against us as the body does against a plague. It contorts, 
Campaign Settings109twists, shifts and changes as we sleep, and the Pokémon that inhabit the wilds are truly savage beings.  If not for the 
charity of some of the more curious and benevolent Wilding tribes, I myself would not be alive to write this diary en-
try.  They know this land in a way we cannot, and to make matters worse, my scouts report that pirates have begun 
to take interest in the Isles as well.  I give it two months before they establish a port of their own. 
I abandoned hopes of this colonization effort playing out as planned.  We will not subjugate and conquer this land 
and the Wildings who inhabit it.  There is something mystical about this land that we do not understand, and if we 
are to thrive and have influence here, we will have to strike alliances with the Wildings.  We know this is something 
they will consider, since we are not the first Anglos to visit this land; it seems the tales of the Vinland saga had some 
truth to them, since a group of Norsemen settled and on a neighboring isle and integrated with the natives.  This 
apparently happened hundreds of years ago. Absurd, isn’t it?
To help accomplish our own steps toward a coalition with the Wildlings, I have established an Explorer’s Guild, 
and have sent couriers to the mainland to begin a recruitment campaign on its behalf.  I will call upon the bravest, 
most skilled trainers, soldiers, scholars, scientists, alchemists, and adventurers across all of Kalos in the hopes that 
they will succeed where we have failed.  I have even welcomed the Wildings to join this effort as a first step toward 
forming an alliance between them and Kalos.  As for those of us of the Kalosian Navy, we shall focus on the securi-
ty of this settlement for the time being.  While my actions will seem absurd to my superiors, and to Europe and the 
Americas as a whole, I hope that the tales the Explorers will weave will help show the world that this land is unlike 
any other. 
-Admiral Sharp, Leader of the Eastern Isles Expedition
Visiwa: The Eastern Isles Campaign Setting
Genre: Age of Discovery, Tribal Fantasy
Features: Alchemy, Ancient Ruins and Exploration, The Anima Metaphysics, Black Powder Weapons, Danger -
ous Wilds and Pokémon, High Seas Adventure, Gods and Legends, Shamanism and Spirits
The Eastern Isles setting takes place in what one could equate to the Caribbean.  Nestled South of Unova (and 
northwest of Mexinova) rests a collection of Isles that host several independent Tribes. While the Technology in this setting is what could be considered primitive, the people of these Isles devised means of creating Apricorn Balls very early in their history.  Mystical and Pscionic powers are also very prevalent among these people, as Visiwa is a very spiritual location.  Pokémon in this setting are respected for the danger they present to those who venture into the wilds, as well as the loyalty and companionship they can provide.  In short, they are viewed in much the same light as wild and domesticated animals are to us.
In addition to the native tribes, the navy of Kalos has recently set its sights on the Isles.  They have established a 
base camp named Port Ivyhollow, but have been unable to expand beyond its borders.  The Kalosians have brought many commodities with them, from iron bound Galleons to black powder weapons, but they struggle with the supernatural.  The Kalosians have also imported foreign Pokémon species to the isles, but have been careful to not let them free into the wilds.  Trade and general relations between the Tribes and the Kalosians is still in a shakey state.  Recently, the Kalosians have caught wind of corsairs approaching the region as well.
This setting uses the Anima Metaphysics presented in Chapter 1, so the following section will be echoing some of 
its aspects and how they apply to Visiwa.
Campaign Settings110The indigenous people of Visiwa came to the islands 
with a great breadth of knowledge from the Golden Age of Empathica, but life in these lands was not what they expected.  The origin of Pokémon, and the dangers the wilds presented were very alien concepts to them.  They quickly learned the laws of this new home, and their so-ciety and studies shifted to adapt to survival in a primal land. 
The first thing the natives learned about their new home, 
is leaving their settlements unprepared was a quick way to die.  Not only were the Pokémon they encountered much more hostile than any they had encountered be-fore, but they found it impossible to make heads or tails on mapping out the lands around their settlements.  Coming across the same rock formation no matter what way they traveled, or they would find this landmark re-peated in completely different biomes.
The Pokémon that inhabited these regions also seemed 
to be constant flux, and they rarely encountered the same species twice.  They also noticed trends in the Types of Species they encountered.  If a child had a nightmare about a ghostly apparition and began to spread the tale amongst the others in the village, sure enough the next time their hunters and gatherers would dare leave, they’ d encounter Ghost Pokémon.
In time, their shamans and spiritual leaders formed 
a hypothesis on this phenomena – one that was later confirmed when they first encountered deities other than their lost Great Mother.  The first lesson was that the human subconscious had a very powerful effect on the world around them.  They had known for ages that Pokémon were highly volatile entities, capable of quick-ly evolving and learning new traits and capabilities. 
It was this observation that led them to create Apricorn 
Balls in the first place – if Pokémon enter a stage of pure energy when they evolve, could they be forced into that state to contain them?  The origins of these Pokémon, they had always assumed, was the doing of The Great Mother.  She surely had the power to create them, and there were endless eye witness accounts of her doing so, even among survivors.  What the shamans theorized is this was simply her act-ing on the subconscious of her devout – that it was the collective human spirit’s dreams and imagination that had given her the idea for these beings, and she had willed them into existence.  What if, in her slumber, this power had been left in a state where it would nat-urally occur as long as humans were near her?  It sure-ly explained the patterns in the kinds of Pokémon they encountered in their travels, and their general hostili-ty.  These beings were being born from nightmares and dreams.
The second hypothesis was that the wilds themselves 
were also in a state of constant flux.  Empathica was an entire island city.  It had no vast, expansive wilds where no men dwelt – just farm lands along its coasts.  Miles and miles of untapped land was a new thing to them, something they had never experienced before.  With no humans around to observe it, it could very well change as easily as the Pokémon that inhabited it did.  If they were ever to make any concrete mapping of what to ex-pect outside of their settlement, they would have to es-tablish more of them and slowly crawl their way across the isles.
To test this theory, the people’s spiritual leaders, and 
those with talent for the mystical and pscionic arts, started to accompany their hunters and gatherers, and observe the land while treating this hypothesis as fact.  They quickly found that this greatly increased the like-lihood of these individuals ever returning home from the wilds, and it helped those who would dare to ex-plore have a better sense of what to prepare for.  With this knowledge in mind, they slowly established a vast network of villages in their new home.  This, of course, had social impacts – a once united people was forced to sever if they ever hoped to flourish in this land.
The Kalosians
Kalos, being inspired by France, continues that tradition 
in Visiwa.  It has been around thirty years since the Ka-losian Revolution, and the refounded nation been in a state of constant flux since.  While the Kalosians are not the first Europeans to settle on the Eastern Isles, their motivations were very different; when Admiral Sharp The Wilds and Setting Basics
Campaign Settings111set out with his fleet to colonize the Eastern Isles, he had 
in mind what most colonial powers did; to conquer the 
land and its natives, and extract the region’s wealth for 
their home empire.  
Things could not have gone worse.  While their initial 
landing and settlement went smoothly, they swiftly 
learned the same lessons the tribesmen had centuries 
ago about how dangerous it was to venture beyond the 
town.  
The fleet swiftly found itself at the mercy of the Wildlings 
(a Kalosian catch-all term for the tribesmen) friendly 
enough to extend a hand.  Admiral Sharp, living up to 
his namesake, realized how disadvantaged they were 
and began to change the objectives of this colony.  The 
Wildlings were willing to trade, and to teach, and the 
Kalosians would need it - especially when dealing with 
the supernatural.
Back home in Kalos, topics of the supernatural are con-
sidered heretical, and those who exhibit signs of an ele-
mental connection, such as Aura or Psionics, are often 
feared and lynched.  Rune Masters and Channelers are 
unheard of, as these arts are not native to Kalos.  
In reality, the military would love to recruit these indi-
viduals for their abilities, and the few they do manage 
to find before they are sent to the gallows are recruited 
to serve as Alchemists: masters of the Elements and ex-empt from the Church of Arceus’s persecution.  Even 
amongst Admiral Sharp’s fleet, there are only a handful 
of these individuals.  The Wildlings, on the other hand, 
have a natural inclination to these abilities.
Admiral Sharp believes that half the struggles that his 
fleet has faced settling here are due to this fear, and lim-
ited understanding of the supernatural, and he’s not far 
off either!  He has recently created an Explorer’s Guild 
that welcomes civilians from the homeland, willing sol-
diers, and Wildings, to collaborate and learn from one 
another as they explore the isle while his fleet focuses on 
the security of the settlement.  Sharp hopes this will lead 
to the Kalosians being just as accepted as the norse set-
tlers of old were, but time will tell if that pans out, and 
the European corsairs probably won’t help with that.Life in the Eastern Isles
While the Wildings are a divided people with various 
tribes and customs, they did come from a common cul-ture and have many shared characteristics.  This is es-pecially true when it comes to the more common jobs among the inhabitants of a village.  The natives do not uphold a caste system, as it’s very common for an indi-vidual to take on many different professions in their life to better round out their ability to adapt and survive.
Starting from the top down, all the tribes have a Chief.  
While the way this individual is chosen differs from tribe to tribe, their role is very much the same – they are the highest authority on all matters within the vil-lage, and it is very uncommon for a chief not have some sort of supernatural power.  This stems from the fact that many of the choices a Chief must be involved with, involve an understanding of the supernatural and the way the lands of Visiwa function.
Directly under the Chief would be the spiritual lead-
ers of the village – Shamans, Witch Doctors, Druids, Witches, Rune Masters, call them what you will, they play many vital roles within a village.  One of these in-dividuals, or one of their acolytes, almost always accom-panies individuals traveling into the wilds.   
Following this are a myriad of professions that are im-
portant to survival in the isles.  Such as warriors, hunt-ers, beastmasters, gatherers, the crafters, traders, farm-ers, and other service providers.  Warriors, hunters and gatherers play very self-explanatory roles – they are the first lines of the defense for the villages and often ven-ture into the wilds to secure whatever raw materials the village needs. 
Rune Masters!  Let’s talk about what those are here.  Since all Pokémon origins start from the subconscious of men, Unowns are this idea at its purist form.  Rune Masters create Unown from human memories, and typically in a village they act as the historians.  A Rune Master’s primary role in a village would be to observe and record the life and times of their people.
Campaign Settings112A more blurred profession here would be beastmasters.  
Ace Trainers, Commanders, Taskmasters, Cheerlead-
ers, Enduring Souls, and similar classes that have more 
of an active battling focus.  These individuals often work 
closely with the warriors, hunters and gatherers, as their 
ability to handle Pokémon and train them for combat 
are highly valued for survival.  Likewise, Pokémon 
Breeders, Mentors, Coordinators and Style Experts pro-
vide the village with outlets to increase the pedigree of 
Pokémon throughout a village as well.  
While Pokémon might have a supernatural origin, the 
ability to both breed them in captivity and better care 
for them is just as important for a village as being able to 
best and capture them in the wilds.  For example, fairly 
common that an explorer’s first Pokémon would be one 
that was bred by one of the village’s Breeders.
Crafters, traders, and farmers provide the village with 
a myriad of resources and needed equipment.  While things such as weapon, armor, food, and restorative po-
tions might seem obvious, often it’s the Apricorn Smiths 
who find themselves the wealthiest. 
Traders, as you could guess, focus on the movement of 
local goods from one village to another for profit.  This 
could include raw goods such as equipment, food, Ap-
ricorn balls, and Pokémon themselves.  The Wildings 
hold a common currency – gold coins from the lost city 
of Empathica – but being there is a finite supply of these bartering and exchange of services are also very com-
mon means of trade as well.  
As for the Kalosians, there are three primary groups 
that have settled in Ivyhollow.  The first are the mem-bers of the Kalosian Navy who are stationed there.  They function as both the local security and law enforcement, 
and answer to Admiral Sharp.  
The second group are skilled professionals: doctors, 
teachers, scientists, artisans, blacksmiths, fishermen, 
farmers, engineers, cartographers, brewmasters, you 
name it, they got it.  These civilians have their own elect-
ed officials who work alongside the Admiral to make 
sure both sides are met.  
The third group are the recently welcomed Explorers.  
These brave souls are the ones who venture forth into the wilds, and while they technically answer to Admiral 
Sharp, they are compensated by both him and the civil-
ians of Ivyhollow.
Since the Wildings had their own coinage, trade with 
the Kalosians was easy to work out and the two curren-
cies are exchanged freely.  Bartering, haggling, and ex-
changing of favors are still common modes of business 
as well.
Technical Machines
One of the first major accomplishments in the collabo-
ration between the Kalosians and the Wildings was the invention of a substance they call Tech-Mojo.  This mix of modern science and tribal magic is an incense that can send a Pokémon on a spirit journey to the Dream World.  When they awake, they know a Move they didn’t know previously, and often couldn’t learn naturally!  
This substance is only sold in quantities large enough 
for a single Pokémon, and seems to have no effect on humans (It doesn’t stop plenty from trying to get high on it anyway.  Cut’s a top seller!) 
Poké  Ball Technology
Both the Kalosians an the Wildings use Apricorn Balls 
as their primary method of capture and containment of Pokémon, and can transport as many as they wish, but most Trainers on both side agree that its difficult to bond and care for more than six Pokémon at a time.  This is a policy that is pretty strictly enforced by caretak-ers in the settlements, since the well being of Pokémon is their duty.  
A Trainer looking to leave a village or town with more 
than six would have to have a very compelling reason to get the approval of the local caretakers.  Transportation of Pokémon from one settlement to another is handled by the caretakers and traders, and due to the efforts of the Explorer’s Guild, they’ve gotten pretty fast at doing it.
Keep in mind there are no factories to produce Poké 
Balls in Visiwa, and the ability to manufacture these devices from Apricorns is vital to a village’s ability to actually capture and raise Pokémon.  If the village lacks 
Campaign Settings113Apricorns and/or Apricorn Smiths, they will have to 
rely on much more primal methods of capture and con-
tainment, such as lassos, traps, and winning Pokémon 
over with bait and force of personality.  This holds true 
for Kalos as well, as commodities traveling from the 
mainland are slow to arrive.
Pokémon Centers
While the villages don’t have typical ‘Pokémon Centers’ , 
these individuals also often act as the village’s medics.  These individuals also typically have close affiliations to the local deity.  Port Ivyhollow hosts an actual Pokémon Center with the best surgeons and nurses that the Ka-losian Navy could get.  Though given this is the 1800’s, many Kalosians wonder if they should put more faith in the remedies the witch doctor’s come up with… Me-chanically, these facilities are identical.
Pokémon Populations
Visiwa hosts a number of different biomes and envi-
ronments, but Ice and Dragon Types in particular are scarce.  They would either be found at the steepest of mountains, found near Snowfeather Village, or be im-ported from Kalos.  This said, due to the constant flux of the wilds in Visiwa, its not unheard of for Explorers to wind up in a tundra due to circumstances beyond their control.  
Type-Shifted and unusual Pokémon, while not com-
mon place, are the most potent threats to humans in the wilds, since ones with these traits tend to become pack leaders amongst their kind, or the most alpha predators.  
Along with Type-Shifted alpha predators are the ever 
dreaded Demesnes.  Sometimes called “Fiends” by the Wildings, these extremely powerful and paranormal creatures lurk in the wilds of the isles, and are less un-common than most would be comfortable with.  It is believed that the majority of The Labyrinth is controlled  by these creatures.
It’s up to you what Pokémon live in a given biome, or 
how far these biomes extend.  The fact that the wilds are in constant change gives you a lot of freedom to vastly change what your players encounter traveling the same route twice.  This said, each locale does offer sugges-tions to what to expect in the wilds near it.

Campaign Settings114The Eastern Isles
1. The Temple of the Great Mother 
Centuries ago, The Great Mother entered her endless 
slumber here.  This location was where the Empathi-cans began their expansion throughout the isles and is their oldest settlement.  While the natives built a temple in her honor on the surface and a handful of tribesmen and shamans reside here to maintain it, what lies be-neath is considered the most dangerous region of the isles: The Labyrinth.  It is as if the land itself wished to protect the resting Mew, and grew defenses to accom-modate that.  Countless Demesnes and their Pokémon 
spawn reside within it, and none can say how far down 
it goes, how treacherous it gets, or what other horrors 
await those who venture too deep.  Those who do reside here are elected individuals from each tribe, and their primary objective is to ensure that the first few levels are 
kept in check so that nothing too dangerous could ever 
surface from the depths below.  Very rarely do explorers 
venture here, and even fewer ever return.
Campaign Settings1152. Darkfeather Village
Associated Types: Ghost, Bug, Poison
Deity :  The Fate Spinner (Ghost/Bug Galvantula)
Darkfeather Village rests upon the shore of The Misty Isle, nestled next to the isle’s massive forest.  The for -
ests covering the isle are a bit more temperate than the jungles on the other isles, and make an ideal breeding ground for Bug Pokémon due to a lack of natural pred-ators.  Villagers of Darkfeather tend to stick to the bay and the forests, as they know the lay of the land there best. For a good portion of their history, their tribe was nomadic, traveling through the forests and hunting and gathering for their food.  Over time they learned to tame and work along side the insects inhabiting these forests, and before too long their tribe developed an affinity for the Bug and Poison Types.  
This development had a heavy cultural impact, as girls 
tended to develop Bug Connections, and boys Poison Connections. The Swarmlods of their tribe learned to use pheromones to better lead their insectoid allies, which over time led to them not only developing a ma-triarchal society, but also adopting a hive-like culture centered around an elected “Queen Bee. ”  This tradition began after a young Swarmlord encountered and be-friended an entity that would become the Tribe’s per -
sonal deity - The Fate Spinner.  It was under the first Queen’s guidance that the nomadic tribe settled down, turning to agriculture as well as hunting, raising and gathering for food.  She also introduced a practice of ancestral worship which would eventually lead Ghost Types to hold the tribe in high regards.
Socially, the Darkfeather Tribe is broken into several 
castes; these castes are familial, but do not hold much weight in determining one’s status as much as their profession.  Farmers, warriors, and shamans, and other societal tasks are considered equals, as all the tasks the Tribe recognizes are necessary to its survival.  Normally, one is stuck to the caste they are born with, but children who develop Elemental Connections (especially girls with Bug Connections) tend to be funneled to a caste more suitable to their talents.  Marriage can also change one’s caste, as men typically take on the caste of their bride.Bug Pokémon play a large role in Darkfeather culture, and almost every caste makes heavy use of them.  This is especially true of the Farmers, who work side by side Bug Types in the fields.  While Poison and Ghost Types 
are also highly revered, Poison Types tend to be raised 
by warriors, and Ghost Types tend to assist those more 
in touch with the supernatural.  Warriors of the Dark-feather Tribe have also adopted many of the survival techniques that Bug, Poison and Ghost Types employ to 
survive into how they fight - including stealth, trickery, 
swift movements and use of venoms.
Religiously, the Darkfeather put a huge emphasis on 
honor to one’s family, including one’s ancestors.  They believe that Ghost Pokémon are the spirits of their loved ones who have returned to help guide the living.  While this belief might not be entirely accurate of the true na-ture of Ghost Pokémon, i is one that has has served the tribe well and that The Fate Spinner does not feel a need to correct.  The Fate Spinner is a gargantuan, spectral Galvantula that has watched over the tribe since their nomadic days, and long before the first Queen noticed her.  She finds humans, the choices they make, and the stories they weave truly fascinating. 
When those she favors finally do pass on, she creates 
a Ghost Pokémon imparted with her memories of the individual; this is considered the highest honor that a Darkfeather tribesmen can receive, and many live their entire lives working toward this goal.  The Fate Spin-ner is very social, and even a bit motherly.  She’s usually found in the company of the current Queen, serving as an advisor, instructor and spiritual counselor for all of the Darkfeather Tribe.
While the Darkfeather Tribe as a whole remains skep-
tical of the fair skinned Kalosians (they were not large 
fans of the Snowfeathers at first either), The Fate Spin-
ner believes that Admiral Sharp’s efforts to found an Ex-plorer’s Guild are done out of good will.  To honor this opinion of their patron deity, they have allowed war -
riors and shamans of their tribe to venture to Ivyhollow 
and enlist in this guild to both learn from and about 
these outsiders.
This is nodding toward the Ninja class existing in Visiwa.
Campaign Settings1163. Steelwing Village 
Associated Types: Fire, Rock, Ground
Deity : The Mountain Breaker (Fire/Ground Torkoal)
 Steelwing Village is nestled in the midst of a mountain valley in the Misty Mountains.  The mountains span across the center of the isle and host a wide variety of Pokémon types.  Travel through the mountains can be quite risky, as the mountain paths tend to be in constant flux. Those traveling outside, or through the range, tend to prefer heading through the mine shafts that the Steel-wing Tribe have dug up.  The entrances to these mines are marked by signal fires along the cliffsides, and trav-el through them is generally considered safe, as guards often patrol them and escort travelers from end to end.  The village also hosts a number of natural hot springs, which are quite popular with visitors. 
The founders of Steelwing Village chose the location for 
its temperate weather (the mountain range shields them from most storms), and proximity to the largest mineral deposits in the isles.  These founders had a vested inter -
est in working toward relearning the lost arts of Em-pathica, and news of the settlement attracted artisans from all over the isles.  
The village makes heavy use of Rock and Ground Types 
to assist with the excavation efforts, and Fire Types to assist with the craftwork.  This close bond has led to the vast majority of those born with an Elemental Connec-tion in the village to be tied to one of these Types.  Pre-cious metals, gemstones, glass work, and stone works are all produced here, making it a hotspot for trade; Steelwing goods are heavily desired by the other tribes, and making the journey to trade for them can be very profitable.
While they are not as religious as their neighboring 
tribes, Steelwing Village does have a patron deity of its own. The Mountain Breaker, a large, craggy Torkoal, has assisted the tribe with their mining and craftsmanship for centuries.  The Legendary has a large admiration for art and craftsmanship, and has embedded himself in this aspect of the village by assisting in training new apprentices, appraising goods, and helping with the ex-cavation of new mine shafts.  He is also responsible for choosing the village’s chief through an annual contest where those wishing to compete for the title of chief are given a list of materials that they must gather, and cre-ate something with.  These materials change from year to year, but all contestants receive the same list.  It is 
a task they must complete with only the assistance of 
their own Pokémon, and cheating is grounds for exile 
from the village.
While the village is a wonderful place for an artisan to 
learn and prosper, it can also be a taxing one.  Competi-
tion amongst peers can be cut throat, and quarrels are a 
constant problem with the youths of the village.  And for those who aren’t miners or craftsmen, life can be rather dull as that is the focus of the village.  To help alleviate 
this, the village has recently sent hot headed apprentices 
and aimless youths to live amongst the other Villages, 
hoping a change of scenery and perspective will help them mature.  Some never return, finding life outside of Steelwing more to their liking, and others come back with a breath of new experiences and a rekindled pas-sion for their craft.  Either way, its proven wildly suc-cessful, and the invitation from Admiral Sharp to wel-come these traveling youths to the Explorer’s Guild was well recieved.
4. Snowfeather Village 
Associated Types: Ice, Dragon, DarkDeity :  The Drake Hunter (Ice/Dark Beartic)
 On the southeast coast of The Misty Isle rests a Village with an unusually chilly climate compared to the rest of the isles.  It snows all year round near Snowfeather Village, and the wildlife in the forests and mountains near here reflects this.  The Village itself is an oddball compared to its peers, since its founders were not Em-pathican, but Norsemen.  Around thirty years after the Empathicans settled, they arrived on wooden longboats en mass.  Almost all of these Nords were runaway slaves who had chased after the tales of a fertile land called Vinland, and had taken to the seas in hopes of finding it.  
Visiwa was not the welcoming Vinland they expected, 
and their settlement was a rough one.  Between their unfamiliarity with this new land, and their lack of re-sources from their long journey, survival looked bleak.  Luckily, the other tribes of Visiwa learned of this new settlement of fair skinned and haired people, and after 
Campaign Settings117much deliberation, decided to help them out.  Things 
were difficult at first, as the former slaves were wary of 
the true intentions of the Empathicans, and the Em-
pathicans unsure if they were the scouts of an invad-
ing force or refugees themselves.  This doubt on the 
side of the Empathicans was largely due to the draconic 
Pokémon these people brought with them.  The fierce 
Dragon Types were unlike any species the Empathicans 
had seen before, and had an unsettling regality about 
them..  
This matter sorted themselves out when a new Deity 
awoke in the Isles; the Norsemen had come with their 
own legends, stories, myths, and beliefs, and many 
fell to prayer in their harshest hours.  These collective 
emotions and wishes were answered by the Isle itself in 
the form of The Drake Hunter, a colossal, black furred 
Beartic.  
It is said that he arrived in the midst of a fight between a 
Darkfeather Tribesmen and a Norsemen, separating the 
two and beseeching both to settle their differences with 
words, and not bloodshed.  He approached the Nor -
dic settlement, ensuring the settlers that their prayers had been answered and entrusting them with a pack of Weaviles, vicious and loyal hunters that would serve the 
settlers well.  He then ventured to the other Villages, 
and pleaded with their Deities and Tribesmen alike to 
welcome these outsiders as brothers and sisters.  
After witnessing what their beliefs had birthed, and 
some introspection, the Empathicans realized that 
these outsiders and their struggles were no different 
than their own.  They welcomed them with open arms, 
and the Nords in return respected by taking on a tribal name of their own - Snowfeather.  While the majority of the Snowfeather chose to stay with the village, oth-
ers decided to intermingle with the other Tribes.  The 
opposite was also true as Empathicans settled in Snow-
feather as well.  Over time, the two bloodlines mixed, 
but the Anglo traits of the original settlers didn’t exactly 
fade away.  People from Snowfeather tend to have light-
er skin, and people with blonde or red hair can be found 
throughout the isles.
In current times, the Snowfeather’s major resources 
are lumber, fish, and skins.  The southern and eastern 
coastline are rich in wildlife, and most the original set-tlers were woodsmen, carpenters and farmers by trade.  
Agriculture is limited in the cold environment, but the 
farmland they do have helps sustain the production of 
wine and mead, two products the others tribes consider 
a grand luxury.  The Drake Hunter still watches over the 
village, though he is a little more offhands than most 
the other Deities.  He resides in the woods near the vil-
lage, but welcomes and teaches those who do track him 
down in an ancient combat style from their original 
home that closely models the ruthlessness of a Weavile, 
and the namesake of a Beartic.  Those who practice it 
are known as Berserkers.
When word of Admiral Nelson’s invitation reached 
Snowfeather, it was met with fear.  Were these Anglos 
from the same land as their ancestors, and were they 
here to take back their slaves?  The reassurance of oth-
er tribes has quelled some of these worries, the turn-
out has been sparse thus far.  Most the initial volunteers 
were adults, grizzled veteran hunters, and Berserkers.  The feedback from the first wave of volunteers has been 
overly positive, though, and now young adults are look-
ing to make the trek as well.
5. Bravescar Village 
Associated Types: Electric, Flying, NormalDeity : The Storm Seer (Electric/Flying Xatu)
 Bravescar Village rests atop an expansive plateau on the northwest side of Kingler Isle.  The plateau itself is largely grasslands, but also has patches of arid desert.  The climate on this plateau is much less humid than it is down in the jungles below, making it a much more dry heat than most the isles.  Getting up and down the plateau is tricky to do on foot, as safe routes up are few and far between.  Most travel up and down is done with the assistance of flying Pokémon.
To the Bravescar Tribe, the plateau is a bread basket.  
There is ample space for raising livestock and crops, enough rainfall to get by, and best of all, a wide variety of Flying Pokémon that live up here.  Bravescar Tribes-men have always had a strong tie to the skies, and their name is derived from both the boldness needed to soar the skies on the back of a Pokémon, and the Braviary Species being one of the more common Flying Types raised by the tribe.  Where this obsession with flight 
Campaign Settings118originated from is a topic of much debate amongst the 
tribe, but most recognize it as a question along the lines 
of asking if the Torchic or the Egg came first and that 
their patron Deity is at the heart of it.
The Storm Seer is a Xatu with a very electrical flare to it 
- with a yellow molting and feather patterns that depict 
storm clouds, rain and thunder.  It rests on a stone pillar 
at the center of the village, and spends its days staring 
into the sun and moon.  It speaks little, but when it does, 
it speaks of events to come, and it’s always right.  The 
significance of these messages varies and most of them 
do happen to be inconsequential, such as predicting a 
newlywed wife in Steelwing Village will burn dinner to-
night, or that a man in Ivyhollow dropped a penny.  
The Storm Seer does however make a point of regularly 
reporting an update on what the weather forecast for 
the next week, or month, or year will look like.  This is 
immensely helpful to farmers and villages in general to help budget and gauge how much food they will be able 
to produce in a year, and what additional must be hunt-
ed or traded for.  Also, when something truly insidious 
does happen in the isles, The Storm Seer alerts all who 
are near what has, or will, transpire.  
Compared to the other Deities, The Storm Seer is a lit-
tle odd.  It doesn’t pay much attention to the humans 
who live alongside it, and does not take part in any of 
the inner workings of the tribe.  If offered a gift, it will accept it and thank the gift giver, but won’t say much 
else.  Despite this, Bravescar Village has a number of 
Clairvoyants and Rune Masters who do their best to 
assist The Storm Seer and record its messages.  These 
messages are handed off to a team of couriers known as the Braves, who take to the skies with their trusted Fly-ing Pokémon, and relay the messages to the other tribes.  
In addition to this, The Braves act as mail carriers for 
the region, and also help transport Apricorn Balls from 
village to village.  These services are very crucial to the 
success of the tribes of Visiwa, and its not uncommon 
for young Bravescar Tribesmen to gain an inflated ego 
from this honor.  When Admiral Nelson extended his 
invitation to the Explorers Guild, these bratty and bois-
terous youths were the first to go with the hope that the 
experience would humble them.  The results are yet to 
be determined.6. Ivyhollow
Associated Types: Grass, Fairy, Steel
Deity : Princess Diana (Diancie)
New Ivyhollow hosts all the amenities a proper colo-ny of Kalos would be expected to have, and plenty of Kalosians and Wildlings live there comfortably.  Un-fortunately, the bay that town rests in is surrounded by swampland and geothermal hotspots, so once you leave town you’re literally knee deep in trouble.  There’s a path by land that leads to both Veilbeak Village and Braves-car Village from the town, but given the swampy condi-tions and the dangerous Pokémon that lurk in it, travel on these roads without a military or Explorer convoy is discouraged.  
For an explorer, probably the most important locale in 
the township is the Explorer Guild’s HQ.  This build-ing hosts a number of meeting rooms, offices, and a re-search library.  All missions and guild business are done through this portside facility:
•	Vai University - founded by a Kalosian inventor 
and artificer by the name of Teresa Vai, this research 
academy focuses on the Kalosians and Wildlings sharing their knowledge with one another.  This ranges from basic language courses, to history and cultural studies, to complex supernatural and scien-tific topics.
•	The Armory - this state-of-the-art blacksmithy and alchemy hall provides both equipment and services to Explorers at affordable prices.  The Alchemy Hall also is home to a team of researchers who are study-ing the unusual Pokémon in the region.
•	The Moonstone Inn - while construction for new housing for Explorers is constantly going on, new arrivals do need a place to stay in the short term!  The Moonstone Inn houses new explorers while they await more permanent housing, making mov-ing in and out of it a rite-of-passage for many.
•	The Singing Feebas - Run by Barkeep Mac, The Singing Feebas is not only a fine seafaring ship, but the best pub in town. Located right on the main pier, explorers often come here to relax, hear the latest gossip, and see if they can pick up some non-official jobs from the town folk for some extra income.
•	The Trader’s Market - Every Saturday, various ships 
Campaign Settings119from Kalos and the various Wildling Tribes come 
into port and set up the Trader’s Market. Here the 
locals can trade for outside goods, and vise-versa.
While Admiral Nelson is officially the leader of the Ex-
plorer’s Guild, he also has his duties to the navy, so he 
has entrusted most the day-to-day administration work 
to Princess Diana: A Diancie that Admiral Nelson be-
friended many years ago back home in Kalos.  While she 
isn’t technically the a patron of the town, most towns-
folk (especially the visiting Wildlings) respect her as 
one.  Most Explorers consider Princess Diana their di-
rect “boss” , as she her aids (both humans and Pokémon) 
are the ones who divvy out missions.  She’s known for 
being bubbly and cheery, and having a sweet tooth for 
Bluk Berry Poffins.
Kalosians in general have a strong tie with Fairy and 
Grass Type Pokémon, and this is especially true of Ad-
miral Nelson’s fleet.  All recruits to his fleet are issued a Mawile upon graduation from basic training, winning 
the them the nickname of Mawile Marines.  Also, the 
infantry mount of choice for the Kalosians is the Go-
goat, so they are quite common to see around the port 
town.  The Admiral himself is almost never seen with-out a Whimsicott on his shoulder and a gaggle of Maw-
iles following at his heels.
7. Veilbeak Village
Associated Types: Fighting, Psychic, Water
Deity : The Sea Guardian (Water/Psychic Milotic)
Veilbeak Village is a seaside settlement where to the west you can find swamps, and to the north you can find dense jungle.  Several rivers meet and empty into the sea here, giving the village easy access to waterways that venture deep into Kingler Isle.  This proximity to so many water sources has led to most the town being on stilts or floating platforms, and many buildings are sim-ply large boats.  It goes without saying that every family in Veilbeak owns a boat, and its often easier to row over to someone’s adobe than to walk there.
The Veilbeak Tribe has always been known for two 
things: its sailors, and its warriors.  The sailors are of no surprise to anyone - with so much of day-to-day life in the village revolving around boats, children learn from a young age how to sail and handle Water Pokémon. For the longest time almost all goods traveling between the isles were carried by a Veilbeak vessel, and trade was the largest source of income for the town.  
That said, it isn’t just the wilds that are dangerous in 
Visiwa; there are things in the deeps even more fright-ening than anything you could experience on land.  This makes security of these vessels a top priority for Veil-beak, which is where their warriors come into play.
Its said it was The Sea Guardian who first taught the 
Veilbeak the secrets of Aura and Psionics.  By bestowing those who would stand up to defend others the ability to transcend the limits of the human body, and teaching others how manipulate the ocean itself, she empowered them to fight the monsters that lurk in the deep.  The grey-scaled Milotic is a generous soul, and often accom-panies ships coming and going from Veilbeak to their destination.  
For those who she cannot accompany, well, the people 
of Veilbeak can handle that on their own now.  Chil-dren born with an Elemental Connection are swiftly sorted out and begin training from a young age with a Pokémon companion of a Type matching their gift.  Because of this, Fighting and Psychic Pokémon are very common sights around town - especially Medicham.  Y ouths without a supernatural gift are often schooled in martial combat, as its expected that anyone who would work on one of the village’s ships should be able to de-fend themselves.
The arrival of the Kalosians is a sour subject for the Vei-
lbeak Village.  Many feel their monopoly on trade be-tween the isles will be threatened by these new arrivals, and others are frustrated that their Fairy Pokémon are so resilient against their best warriors.  How the people of Kalos treat people with the gifts they excel at is also a sour topic for most, and their proximity to the town of Ivyhollow makes many nervous  
Admiral Nelson has done his best to assure the people 
of Veilbeak that he and the people of Ivyhollow mean them no harm, but relations are shaky.  Those who do answer the Explorer’s call usually have a bone to pick with the people of Kalos.
Campaign Settings120Trainer Creation
Trainers with supernatural aptitude are a dime in a 
dozen amongst the Wildlings, but scarce amongst Ka-losians.  Kalosians who have an elemental connection were either raised in a military environment from an early age to become Alchemists, or fled from home to avoid persecution for their talents.  
Given the time frame and the scope of the setting, the 
classes in Do Porygon Dream of Mareep do not make sense in the setting.  Advancement paths from The Blessed and the Damned, on the other hand, would be very appropriate.  One class that can work in the setting but would need reimagination would be Photographer.  Photographers, rather than rely on a camera, would have to rely on pen and paper.
Building a Visiwan Campaign
The most likely setup for a group of player characters in The Eastern Isles is as an Explorer Team working out of Ivyhollow.  This gives the players a wide variety of potential backgrounds to come from, and gives them a very direct, joint goal by working to uncover the se-crets of the isles.  Sessions and plot arcs would start in the form of missions assigned by Princess Diana, and branch out from there.
That said, there’s a few different plot points in this set-
ting that you could also play from.  Y ou could turn the dial back to the fall of Empathica, with the player char -
acters being amongst the survivors as they began to learn about the isles and splinter into tribes.  Y ou could also go to the period in time when the Norsemen first arrived, with your players either being runaway slaves trying to find a new home,tribesmen deciding how to approach these fair skinned people, or a mix of both in a scenario where the two sides need to find a middle ground to survive a struggle or crises.  
Those looking for a more swashbuckling theme could 
take things a different way.  The player characters could possibly be a pirate crew looking to set up a pirate town, or a tea of privateers working under Admiral Nelson tasked with stopping these buccaneers.  Or what if the East Indian Trade Company started to take interest in the isles as well?  There’s a lot of different angles one could approach the setting from, and each of them has a unique flair to it.
Plot Hooks
Here is an assortment of ideas for GMs who need a last minute session idea or some hooks they could throw to their players to give them more options to explore. Not all of these are necessarily meant to be used in the same campaign, and some of them establish facts about the setting you may wish to ignore in your campaign.
The Labyrinth of the Great Mother
The Great Mother rests far, far below her temple on the small isle south of Ivyhollow, and it is a known fact that the halls beneath the surface are extremely dangerous.  There are horrors that lurk down there, and those who live there are tasked at ensuring they do not reach the surface.  To the Wildlings, this simply was a fact, one they accepted and did not question.  But the Kalosians, after hearing these tales, found the whole story peculiar.  
Why would the land itself build a natural dungeon that 
is considered a death trap?  Why are extremely powerful Pokémon trying to leave it?  What about the extremely powerful Pokémon in the wilds, where did they come from?  Are there maybe more entrances than the Wild-lings originally thought?  Is something actually trying to keep others away from the Great Mother?  All of these were simply questions exchanged between Kalosian re-searchers at first, since it struck them as something that would be offensive to ask a Wildling.
That changed recently.  This plot hook isn’t something 
that should kick in immediately as the game starts, but it is something you should hint and tease about with the above questions.  The player characters have stumbled across something or unleashed something that has had catastrophic results.  Horrific creatures are rising from the sea, the land, and the labyrinth at a terrifying rate, and something must be done about it.  Admiral Nelson has called for the Explorers Guild to answer this call, and beseeches the player characters to venture down into the labyrinth to both quell these monsters, and learn what has caused this.  
Ultimately, the truth of what happened here is in your 
hands.  Maybe the cause is also what caused Empathica 
Campaign Settings121to fall.  Perhaps a malevolent Legendary has taken ad-
vantage of The Great Mother’s absence and has made 
the labyrinth so that none could reach and rouse her.  
Perhaps this is due to The Great Mother having a really 
bad nightmare, and her dreams becoming reality.  
Either way, your players have been asked to tackle this 
head on, calming one level of the labyrinth at a time as 
they work their way down to the resting place of The 
Great Mother.
Scourge of the Crimson Corsairs
Admiral Nelson is well aware that pirates are taking in-
terest in the isles, and is doing his best to up security to brace for it.  What he’s not aware of is the scale of this pirate threat.  A pirate captain named Grant the Red has managed to unite a dozen of the most feared pirate crews under a single banner: The Crimson Corsairs.  
Their fleet is heading straight for Visiwa, and their goals 
are bigger than just looting, drinking, gambling and wenching; these buccaneers want power.  Grant aims to turn the isles into a sanctuary for pirates, and enslave the gods of its indigenous population for his own gain.  
How he intends to do this, no one can agree on.  Some 
say he plans to usurp The Great Mother, and have his most trusted underlings do the same to the others.  Others say he has the support of a dark lord, or several dark lords.  Others think he himself might BE a dark divinity.  Regardless of what the truth is, his fleet poses a threat unlike any other to Visiwa.
The player characters, as well as their NPC allies, should 
be caught off guard by the reality of how large this fleet is.  They should completely overtake a location (ideally the Temple of the Great Mother), and establish a base of operations there.  Combating these pirates will take a large force, and the player characters trying to unite the isles under a banner as well should be encouraged.  Each of these pirate crews has a unique theme to it, and while they are all loyal to Grant, they should have their own agenda as well. 
Perhaps down the road some of them will change sides 
and help the player characters, or even backstab Grant for their own gain.  The end result no matter how it plays out should be an epic struggle as the player characters do their best to help defend the villages of the isles, and ensure Grant’s mission does not go as planned.  
Encounter and Session Ideas
•	The long scorned and disgraced Firefoot Tribe, composed entirely of pygmy cannibals, has risen from the shadows and attacked Ivyhollow!  They’ve made off with several prisoners and have retreated into the swamp.  To make matters worse, The Storm Seer claims they’ve finally found a patron deity of their own.
•	There’s a festival going on in Snowfeather Village, with dancing, drinking and hunting!  Y es, hunting.  The village hosts an open invitation challenge every year.  The objective is simple : go out and slay or capture the most powerful Pokémon you can find.  Those who enter compete over several Dragon Type Pokémon eggs specially bred as rewards for this event!  Some say the real winner gets a Sneasel egg, though.
•	While traveling between islands by ship, the play-er characters witness an eerie scene at night as the legendary ghost ship known as The Flying Dutch-man sails past them.  Seeing this ship is known as an ill omen,and the night only gets stranger as Ghost Pokémon and other horrors start to invade the ship the player characters are on.
•	While visiting Bravescar Village, The Storm Seer warns the village that a kraken will soon attack a ship at sea!  The player characters are the only ones available to relay a warning and help combat the monster, and are permitted to borrow a Flying Pokémon for the trip if needed.
•	While venturing along the coast in the wilds, the player characters spot a woman with the lower body of a Milotic resting on a rock!  If approached, she panics and dives below the surface.  If the players continue to investigate this, they discover a chunk of sunken, Empathican ruins, and a tribe of merfolk who are living there!
•	The player characters forgot about Princess Di-ana’s birthday, and she’s so upset with them that she won’t give them work!  But fret not, Admiral Nel-son thinks he might have an idea to help the players apologize to the pouting Diancie.  And it involves singing, dancing, and bluk berry poffins.