May 2015 Playtest1What Am I Looking At Here?
This is a supplementary playtest document for the fan-
made Pokémon Tabletop United roleplaying system, 
written for use with the 1.05 release version of PTU. 
We’ll occasionally release packets like this one to test 
experimental content and give us a sandbox to play with 
ideas that aren’t quite ready for a full release but which 
we want to get feedback and comments on. Everything 
you see here is subject to change! Stumbled on this PDF by chance and have no idea what we’re talking about? Check the following links 
and resources! These are also where you can give us 
feedback on what you see here and keep up with new playtest packet releases.
•	PTU	Site/Blog: http://pokemontabletop.com/
•	IRC	Channel: #PokemonTabletop on Rizon
•	Forums: http://forums.pokemontabletop.com/
What’s New In This Packet?
Much of the PTU 1.05 release focused on combat 
options, such as revamping Weapon rules. The core of 
the system is its tactical combat, so this shouldn’t be 
surprising. Classes with absolutely nothing to contribute to battle or battle prep don’t tend to do well. However, 
as a result, utility Trainers and options for Travel and 
Investigation builds were left a bit by the wayside. 
Writing non-supernatural utility options in PTU is 
tricky. Mundane utility usually boils down to use of Skills, the Items and Equipment you have access to, 
and the Pokémon that comprise your team. All of 
these elements exist and work fairly independently of a Class structure. Additionally, we try to stay away from 
Features and Edges which directly give in-universe 
rewards that usually come through roleplaying or which force the GM to introduce particular organizations 
into their campaign (a title as a Gym Leader or other 
position of authority, access to a particular in-universe service, allies and resources, etc.). Some systems like 
Fate or Powered by the Apocalypse do mundane utility 
by allowing players direct narrative control, but that isn’t a path we want to take with PTU. 
All of this can make it rather tricky to write utility 
Classes. That said, we’ve taken a crack at giving utility 
Trainers more build options that also give primarily 
non-combat Trainers better actions in combat. Here you’ll find: 
The Backpacker, a new Survival-based Class. Similar 
to the Hobbyist, it can be a build-fixing pick, making 
it easier to use a variety of Items and Edges with just 
an investment in Survival. Unlike Hobbyist though, 
which gives a breadth of Skills to accomplish this, the Backpacker lets you develop a couple skills in more 
depth. It also boosts your use of Items and Equipment.
The Gadgeteer Researcher Field of Study, revived and 
overhauled from the cut 1.04 version. In addition to 
making improvised gadgets, it creates Cap Cannons, a replacement for Glue Cannons and Weighted Nets.
Book	Items  and Features in the General Research Field 
of Study to better use them. Book Items can be studied 
by Draining AP and spending time to give a bonus for 
the rest of the day, giving Trainers without AP sinks a use for their spare AP .
Y ou’ll also find a change to Repulsive Medicines and a 
bit of errata for Chef, Survivalist, and Hobbyist. 
We hope you enjoy this playtest packet and look forward 
to your thoughts and comments!
- the PTU dev team (Doxy, zoofman, castfromhp)
Pokémon Tabletop United
May 2015 Playtest Pack
May 2015 Playtest2
Backpacker
Travel is synonymous with the Pokémon Trainer’s lifestyle, and the best way to travel is with a full pack 
of supplies for any situation. Backpackers know how to make the most of their items, using them with 
quickness and efficiency, whether they be Potions to heal their friends or Repels to drive away dangerous 
wild Pokémon. 
The adventurer’s lifestyle teaches a Backpacker adaptability and endows them with many talents that would 
normally seem outside their field of expertise. Stealth gear or even fashionable wear can be like armor to them, and their experience trekking through treacherous terrain has taught them to avoid hazards as they 
walk. 
Backpacker fits a variety of builds, letting Survival-oriented characters gain combat prowess without 
needing a large investment in the Combat Skill and providing craffters with more efficient ways to use their 
creations.Associated Skills: SurvivalTravel and Investigation
Trainer Combat

May 2015 Playtest3Backpacker
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Traveler
Static
Effect : Y ou gain the Skill Enhancement Edge. Y ou then gain an instance of the Skill Stunt Edge for each of the two 
Skills you chose with Skill Enhancement. 
Item	Mastery
[+Speed]Prerequisites: Backpacker
Static
Effect : Y ou learn the Moves Fling and Recycle.
Equipment	Savant
[+Speed]Prerequisites: Backpacker, Expert Survival
2 AP – Swift Action
Effect : Use or Equip an Item or piece of Equipment 
which would normally require a Standard Action 
to use or equip. Y ou may not make an Attack with a 
Weapon this way - using other Items or Equipment that requires “ Attacks” (such as Cap Cannons or Poké Balls) 
is acceptable.Hero’s	Journey
[Ranked 3] [+Speed]
Rank	1	Prerequisites: Backpacker
Rank	2	Prerequisites: Backpacker, Adept Survival
Rank	3	Prerequisites: Backpacker, Expert SurvivalRank	4	Prerequisites: Backpacker, Expert Survival
Static
Effect : Each Rank, you may gain two Backpacker Talents 
for which you qualify.
Backpacker Talents
Call	to	Adventure	
StaticEffect : Y ou gain the Instinctive Aptitude Edge, even if 
you do not meet its prerequisites. If you already have this Edge, gain another Edge for which you qualify. During Combat or tense situations (never Extended Actions), if 
you spend AP to add a bonus to a Skill Check, you may 
add +1d6 instead of +2.
Frisk
StaticEffect : Y ou gain the Frisk Ability. 
Handyman
StaticEffect : Whenever you use an item or a non-Weapon 
piece of equipment which calls for a Skill Check or has an effect or prerequisite based on a Skill Rank, you may substitute Survival for the used Skill. This does not affect 
prerequisites for Books.Hat	Trick
Static
Effect : While wearing Head Equipment worth at least 
$1000, you gain 15 Damage Reduction against Critical 
Hits. This does not stack with any Damage Reduction 
granted by any Head Equipment.
Movement	Mastery
Static
Effect : Choose one of Art of Stealth, Athletic Initiative, 
Mounted Prowess, Nimble Movement, Slippery, Stamina, Swimmer, or Wallrunner. Y ou gain the chosen Edge, even if you do not meet the prerequisites. 
Additionally, you may take any of these Edges in the 
future as if you did meet the prerequisites.
May 2015 Playtest4
Sole	Power
Static
Effect : While wearing Feet Equipment worth at least 
$1000, you do not trigger Hazards while Shifting. 
However, you still trigger any Hazards that you are 
standing on at the start or end of your turn. Reactive 
Hazards such as Stealth Rock cannot be triggered against you.
Wayfarer
StaticEffect : Y ou may use your Survival Skill when making 
Opposed Rolls when defending against Disarm, Grapple, Push, and Trip Maneuvers. When wielding a Weapon, you may use Survival instead of Combat to 
determine the Damage Base of your Struggle Attacks 
and to qualify for a Weapon’s Moves.Wear	it	Better
Prerequisites: Expert SurvivalStatic
Effect : While wearing Body Equipment worth at least 
$1000, you gain +5 Damage Reduction. This does not 
stack with any Damage Reduction granted by any Body Equipment.
May 2015 Playtest5
Gadgeteer Research Field
Improvised	Gadgets
Prerequisites: Novice Technology Education
Bind 2 AP – Extended Action
Target: A willing Pokémon with the Magnetic, Zapper, 
or Threaded CapabilityEffect : Choose one of the Capabilities listed in the 
Target line that the target Pokémon has. Y ou create a Main or Off-Hand Equipment Item usable by Trainers that grants the user the chosen Capability. Whenever a 
Trainer makes Struggle Attacks using Zapper through 
this Item, they may choose to use your Technology Education Rank tripled in place of an offensive Stat. 
When this Feature is Unbound, the Equipment Item 
breaks and cannot be repaired. Y ou may only have X instances of this Feature Bound at once, where X is 
equal to half your Technology Education Rank. 
I	Meant	to	Do	That
Prerequisites: Improvised Gadgets, Adept Technology 
Education
At-Will – Special
Condition : Y ou must have at least one Equipment Item 
you created with Improvised Gadgets equipped to use 
this Feature.
Effect : Choose one of your equipped items you 
created with Improved Gadgets. It is destroyed and 
cannot be repaired, and that instance of Improvised 
Gadgets is immediately Unbound. Use the effect below corresponding to the Capability granted by the chosen 
item. 
	»Magnetic: Y ou may activate this effect as a Standard Action Interrupt whenever a Steel or Electric-Type 
attack or an attack with a metal Weapon would hit a target within 5 meters. The attack instead misses all 
targets within 5 meters. 
	»Threaded: Choose up to 3 targets within 4 meters 
and perform an AC 4 Status Attack against them as 
a Standard Acion. All hit targets become Stuck and 
Trapped for one full round. 
	»Zapper : Y ou may activate this effect as a Swift  
Action upon hitting a foe with a Zapper-modified Struggle Attack. The foe is Paralyzed.Capsule	Science
Prerequisites: Improvised Gadgets, Expert Technology Education
Static
Effect : Y ou learn the Cap Cannon, Cap Ammo, and 
Wonder Launcher recipes, and you gain the following 
additional effects when using those items. 
	»Bean	Caps: Y ou gain a +10 Damage Bonus when 
using Bean Caps.
	»Glue	Caps: Y our Effect Range when using Glue 
Caps is increased by +3. 
	»Nets	Caps: Targets affected by your Net Caps gain 
a -X penalty to all Damage Rolls, where X is your 
Technology Education Rank. 
	»Wonder	 Launcher: Whenever you apply an item 
to a target using the Wonder Launcher, they gain Temporary Hit Points equal to your Technology 
Education Rank. 
Enhanced	Capsules
Prerequisites: Capsule Science, Master Technology 
Education
Daily x3 – Extended Action
Target: A willing Pokémon with one of the Capabilities listed below
Effect : Choose one of the Capabilities below which the 
target Pokémon has. Y ou create a consumable item with 
the effect below, depending on the chosen Capability. 
All unused items created with Enhanced Capsules 
are rendered inert after an Extended Rest (including modifications to other items).
	»Glow : This item may be attached to a Wonder 
Launcher as a Standard Action to give the following 
effect for the rest of the Scene: Whenever you apply 
an Item to a target using this Wonder Launcher, that target gains the Illuminate Ability for one full round. 
	»Magnetic: This item may be loaded into a Cap Cannon to provide two Bean Cap Ammo. When fired, these Bean Caps cannot miss.
	»Threaded: This item may be loaded into a Cap Cannon to provide two Glue Cap Ammo. When fired, they affect a Blast 2 instead of a single target. 
	»Zapper : This item may be loaded into a Cap Cannon 
as a single Net Cap Ammo. Targets trapped by this Net Cap are Suppressed while trapped. Targets 
immune to Electric-Type attacks are immune to this 
effect.
May 2015 Playtest6
Gadgeteer Recipes
Cap	Cannon
At-Will – Extended Action
Effect : Y ou create a Cap Cannon for $2000. 
Cap	Ammo
At-Will – Extended ActionEffect : Y ou create a Bean Cap for 
$25, a Glue Cap for 
$50, or a Net Cap for $100. Wonder	Launcher
At-Will – Extended ActionEffect : Y ou create a Wonder Launcher for 
$5000.
Additional Changes
Mechanical	 Scrap is a new Scrap category that encom-
passes Items made with the Gadgeteer, Engineer, and 
Upgrader Fields of Study. 
Glue Cannons and Weighted Nets are replaced with 
Cap Cannons, which have the following rules text: 
Cap	Cannon - Capsule Cannons - or Cap Cannons for 
short - are two-handed pieces of Equipment which can 
be loaded with different types of Capsules (Caps) and fired. They can be fired as a Standard Action, and the 
range and effect of the Cannon depends on the Cap 
used. A Cap Cannon may have up to five Caps loaded in it at once, and they do not have to be fired in any 
particular order. Y ou may load up to two Caps into a 
Cannon as a Standard Action. There are three types of Caps: Bean Caps, Glue Caps, and Net Caps. In addi-
tion to Caps, Capsule Cannons can also be loaded with 
Smoke Bombs, Pester Balls, and Poke Balls. When fired this way, these items behave normally but have a Range 
of 10 meters. Capsule Cannons cost 
$5000. 
Bean	Cap - Bean Caps shoot as a small cloth projectile 
filled with beads, which explodes upon contact, dealing 
some damage.
Cost	per	Cap: $50
AC: ( 6 minus Tech Edu Rank, Minimum 2 )
Range : 10 meters
Effect : The target takes 20 Physical, Normal-Type Dam-
age. On 18+, the target is Tripped and loses a Tick of Hit Points.Glue	Cap	 - Glue Caps shoot as a sticky orb that explodes 
upon contact, covering the target in a sticky adhesive. 
Cost	per	Cap: 
$100
AC: ( 8 minus Tech Edu Rank, Minimum 2 )
Range : 8 meters
Effect : Cause the target to become Slowed, and their 
Initiative is lowered by 5. On 18+, the target is also 
Stuck and Trapped.
Net	Cap - Net Caps expand into a strong fibrous net 
that cling to and entangle their target. 
Cost	per	Cap: $200 
AC: ( 10 minus Tech Edu Rank )
Range : 6 Meters
Effect : Targets hit by a Net Cap gain all the effects below 
while the net remains on them. Targets may attempt to 
remove the Net as a Standard Action; if they do, they 
make a Save Check with a DC of 15, adding their Power Capability as a bonus to their Roll. Targets may auto-
matically remove the Net as an Extended Action.
 »If the target is a Wild Pokémon, Capture Rate is in-
creased by +20
 »If the target is Large Size or smaller, they take a -3 penalty to Accuracy Rolls 
 »If the target is Medium Size or smaller, they are 
Slowed and Vulnerable 
 »Sky and Levitate Speeds cannot be used; the target 
is forced to lower themselves to the ground (without 
taking fall damage).
May 2015 Playtest7
General Research Field
Breadth	of	Knowledge
Prerequisites: Novice General Education
Static
Effect : Y ou gain three Edges for which you qualify. 
These Edges must be used to gain a Skill Edge with an 
Education Skill, or to gain an Edge that has an Education 
Skill as a Prerequisite that you meet.
Bookworm
Prerequisites: Breadth of Knowledge
Static
Effect : Y ou gain X Study Points, where X is equal to 2 
plus one more for every other General Research Feature 
you have. Y ou may Drain Study Points to benefit from 
studying Books, instead of Draining your Action Points. 
Study Points are restored to your maximum after an Extended Rest, just like Action Points.Well	Read
Prerequisites: Bookworm, Expert General EducationStatic
Effect : Y ou may use your General Education Rank 
to qualify for Books, instead of the Book’s usual Skill 
Prerequisites, provided you have the normal Prerequisite 
at at least Novice Rank.
Echoes	of	the	Future
Prerequisite : Breadth of Knowledge, Master General 
EducationDaily x2 – Free Action
Trigger: Y ou or your Pokémon make a roll Effect : Y ou may roll twice and keep the best result.
Book Item Mechanics
Books hold knowledge, and knowledge is power! Books are Items associated with Education Skills that can be used during Extended Actions to Drain your AP to receive certain benefits.
After half an hour of study, you can Drain 1 AP to gain the benefits of one Rank of a Book , if you meet the prereq-
uisite Skill for that Book’s Rank. Ranks in an individual book must be gained sequentially (e.g. you must have the 
Novice Rank effect to gain the the Expert Rank effect).
The benefits from a Book last until an Extended Rest is taken; when an Extended Rest is taken, you may choose to 
renew any Drain previously held from Books and continue to gain the effects.
Books generally cost 
$1000, but we are still looking at how to best price them. Give us feedback!
General Education Books
Study	Manual
Description: A Study Manual is always assigned to a 
single Skill and covers a specific narrow field that can 
be taken as a Skill Stunt. A list of examples is provided.
Rank	1	-	Novice	 General	 Education: Y ou gain a Skill 
Stunt in the associated Skill of the Study Manual cover -
ing the narrow field specified by the Study Manual. Rank	2	-	Expert	 General	 Education: Y ou gain a general 
+2 Bonus to the associated Skill. This Bonus does not 
stack with other bonuses from Books or Equipment to 
the same Skill.Examples: Gossip Mag - Charm (regional celebrities), Locksmith’s Manual - Stealth (lock-picking), Paleontol-
ogy Manual - Survival (digging up fossils), How to be 
1337 - Technology Education (hacking)
The	Joy	of	Cooking
Description: A cookbook for novice and experienced chefs alike.
Rank	1	-	Novice	 General	 Education: Y our material 
costs for crafting Food Items of any variety are reduced 
by 10%.
Rank	2	-	Expert	 General	 Education: Meal and Re-
freshment Items you create cause whoever eats them to 
gain a Tick of Hit Points.
May 2015 Playtest8How	Berries??
Description: A beginner’s guide to the proper care of 
berry plants.
Rank	1	-	Adept	 General	 Education: Once per day 
when making a Yield Roll, add +1 to the result.
Rank	2	-	Expert	 General	 Education: Y ou may create 
Mulch from Food Scrap.
Medicine Education Books
First	Aid	Manual
Description: A training manual given to all EMTs. Rank	1	-	Novice	 Medicine	 Education: Y ou gain a +10 
Bonus to Medicine Education Checks made to use a First Aid Kit.Rank	2	-	Expert	 Medicine	 Education: Y ou may use the 
First Aid Expertise Feature once per day. 
Traditional	Medicine	Reference*
Description: A volume dedicated to properly preparing herbal medications. 
Rank	1	-	Adept	Medicine	 Education: Targets you ad-
minister Herbal Restoratives to do not lose Combat 
Stages no matter how many Herbal Restoratives they’ve 
had in the same day.
Rank	2	-	Expert	 Medicine	 Education: Whenever you 
administer an Herbal Restorative to a target, they may 
choose to gain the Food Buff associated with Herbal Re-
storatives, regardless of how many Herbal Restoratives they’ve used this day.
*See Herbal Restoratives in Miscellaneous Errata
Caretaker’s	Manual
Description: An invaluable guide to patient care with 
wide appeal and praised by both nurses and rangers.
Rank	1	-	Adept	Medicine	 Education: Once per Scene, 
you may assist an adjacent ally in Taking a Breather as 
a Standard Action, and they do not Shift or become 
Tripped as part of this action. If the target is Confused 
or Enraged, you may roll Medicine Education instead of Command to assist them.
Rank	2	-	Master	 Medicine	 Education: This effect can 
only be bound while taking an Extended Rest and 
Drains AP for the next day. During this Extended Rest, 
Pokémon and Trainers in your care heal twice as many 
Hit Points while resting, heal Injuries twice as quickly, and may heal an additional Injury per day. This stacks 
with use of Bandages.Occult Education Books
Dowsing	For	Dummies
Description: A favorite of rock collectors everywhere, 
this book teaches the user how to attune their dowsing 
rods. 
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Occult	 Education: Roll +1d6 when 
searching for Shards.
Rank	2	-	Adept	Occult	 Education: When you begin 
searching for Shards, you may choose to expend an ad-
ditional activation of Dowsing for the day. If you do, 
choose a Shard Color; all the Shards you find during 
this search will be of the chosen Color.
How	to	Avoid	Being	Spooked
Description A questionable old tome filled with Ghost-related esoterica.
Rank	1	-	Adept	Occult	 Education: While holding a 
Cleanse Tag in your Main or Off-Hand Equipment Slot, 
you can see Pokémon and Trainers using the Invisibility 
Capability.
Rank	2	-	Expert	 Occult	 Education: While holding a 
Cleanse Tag in your Main or Off-Hand Equipment Slot, 
you are immune to the Cursed Status Affliction.
Tinfoil	 Gospel:	 Your	Primer	 on	Thwarting	 the	
Conspiracies	of	the	New	World	Order
Description: An even more questionable tome, filled 
with laughable conspiracy theories. Its mental exercises 
are strangely effective, however. 
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Occult	 Education: Y ou gain the Iron 
Mind Edge and the Skill Stunt - Focus (resisting Telep-
athy). 
Rank	2	-	Expert	 Occult	Education: Y our Aura becomes 
muddled and difficult to read. Pokémon and Trainers 
with the Aura Reader Capability cannot discern the tint 
of your Aura and must succeed on an opposed Intuition or Focus Check vs your Occult Education or Focus in 
order to read the hue of your Aura. Upon failure, they 
may not attempt to read your Aura again for the re-mainder of the Scene.
May 2015 Playtest9Pokémon Education Books
Type	Study	Manual
Description: These Books focus on one particular 
Pokemon Type.
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Pokémon	 Education: Y ou gain a -5 
Bonus on Capture Checks against the studied Type.
Rank	2	-	Expert	 Pokémon	 Education: When you ap-
ply Experience Training, you may choose to give one of your Pokémon of the studied Type +10 Bonus Experi-ence. The same Pokémon cannot be chosen two days in 
a row.
 
Pokémon	Daycare	Licensing	Guide
Description: This book teaches advanced Pokémon 
Breeding techniques. 
Rank	1	-	Adept	Pokémon	 Education: When Breeding 
Pokémon of this Book’s Egg Group, you may choose 
which parent’s species the Egg is of.
Rank	2	-	Master	 Pokémon	 Education: When hatching 
Eggs of Pokémon of this Book’s Egg Group, the hatched 
Pokémon learns their first Inheritance Move at Level 10 
instead of Level 20. 
*There will also eventually be a Contest-related book, 
but we don’t want to write one with the current state of 
Contest rules. 
Survival Books
Fishing	101
Description: A good way to waste an afternoon sitting 
at the side of a boat. 
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Survival: Y ou gain the Snare Capture 
Technique, but it only applies to Pokémon you have 
fished up. 
Rank	2	-	Adept	 Survival: Whenever you fish up a 
Pokémon, choose two Combat Stats. That Pokémon be-
comes Flinched and loses 1 Combat Stage in each of the 
chosen Stats. A	Field	Guide	to	Fungi
Description: This book tells you which mushrooms are 
good to eat and which ones will give you a bad trip.
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Survival: Y ou automatically identify 
all Tiny Mushrooms, Big Mushrooms, and Balm Mush-
rooms you pick. Whenever you or your Pokémon con-
sume one of those Mushrooms, they ignore the negative 
effect of the Mushroom (Hit Point loss, Poison, Combat Stage loss).
Rank	2	-	Adept	Survival: Y ou can create the Hearty 
Meal Chef Recipe as an Extended Action but only by 
using Mushrooms as ingredients. 
Travel	Guide
Description: A Travel Guide covers a specific location, such as a mountain or a pair of routes in the wilderness. 
Travel Guides are usually written for the more popular 
destinations in a region, but they might not necessarily exist for more obscure and out of the way locations.
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Survival: Y ou gain the following Skill 
Stunts while traveling in the studied location: Survival 
(Foraging) and Survival (Navigation). 
Rank	2	-	Expert	 Survival: Y ou and your Pokémon do 
not take damage from naturally occurring Weather ef-
fects in the studied location. 
Technology Education Books
The	Anarchist	Cookbook
Description: The simple act of owning this book isn’t illegal, but carrying out its suggestions might be.
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Technology	 Education: Whenever 
you apply a Repel to a target, they become Blinded until 
the end of their next turn. This may only affect a target 
once per Scene. 
Rank	2	-	Expert	 Technology	 Education: Whenever 
you hit a target with a Repel or Pester Ball, they lose Hit 
Points equal to your Technology Education Rank. 
Poké	Ball	Technical	Manual
Description: Y our all-in-one guide to balls. 
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Technology	 Education: Y our material 
costs for crafting Poke Balls of any variety are reduced by 10%.Rank	2	-	Expert	 Technology	 Education: Poke Balls 
you craft gain a +2 Bonus to Accuracy Rolls.
May 2015 Playtest10DIY	Engineering
Description:
Rank	1	-	Novice	 Technology	 Education: Y our material 
costs for crafting items crafted from Mechanical Scrap are reduced by 10%.Rank	2	-	Expert	 Technology	 Education: Whenever 
you Scrap an Item you created, you gain Scrap worth 75% of its monetary cost instead of only 50%.
May 2015 Playtest11Miscellaneous Errata
Food and Chef Errata
Digestion	Buffs	are now called Food	Buffs. 
Dumplings cannot be used to make other Dumpling 
items. No infinite recursion, please. 
The bonus from Accentuated Taste can only be gained 
once per item, even if Complex Aftertaste is used to give an additional Food Buff for the item. 
Gluttony’s effect should read as follows: “The user may 
have up to three Food Buffs at once, and may eat up to 
two refreshments per half hour. ”
Other Class-Related Errata
Capture	 Specialist: Tools of the Trade now gives an Ac-
curacy bonus to Cap Cannons.
Hobbyist : Hobbyist now only allows the user to take 
Skill Edges that Rank Up a Skill.Hunter : Surprise! now has an AP discount when trig-
gered by attacks using Cap Cannons.  Survivalist: Natural Fighter now allows a Survivalist 
to use the Move Spikes instead of Fling when in Urban 
terrain.
Herbal Restoratives
Repulsive	 Medicines are now called Herbal	 Restor-
atives and no longer cause Pokémon to dislike their Trainer. Instead, they have the following effects: 
Herbal Restoratives function differently from most nor -
mal Restorative items. While you can spray as many 
Potions on a Pokémon or Trainer each day as you like, using too many Herbal Restoratives in one day can be 
detrimental. However, using just one or two a day is fine 
and can even be better than using normal Restoratives! 
Keep track of how many Herbal Restoratives a Pokémon 
or Trainer consumes. This count is reset after each Ex-tended Rest.The first time a Pokémon or Trainer consumes an Herb-
al Restorative in a given period, they gain a Food Buff  
that can be traded in to gain a +2 bonus on a Save Check.
The second time a Pokémon or Trainer consumes an 
Herbal Restorative in a given period, they become un-able to gain Food Buffs or Temporary Hit Points until 
they take an Extended Rest.
The third time and every time thereafter that Pokémon 
or Trainer consumes an Herbal Restorative in a given 
period, roll 1d6. 1 corresponds to Attack, 2 to Defense, 3 to Special Attack, 4 to Special Defense, 5 to Speed, and 
6 is re-rolled. The user’s default Combat Stage for the 
rolled Stat is reduced by 1 until they take an Extended Rest.